




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University



































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:
























































Ashoka University practices a holistic approach of assessment in its Undergraduate, Graduate, Young India Fellowship, and PhD Programmes.
Our Admissions processes evaluate each applicant’s fit to our programmes in light of their context and allows them to present their unique identity through every stage of the process. Offers of Admission are made to deserving candidates for the programme to which they have applied based on their overall performance in our stated application and admissions processes.
All decisions taken by the Admissions Committee are final and will be communicated with the applicant by the deadlines set for each programme. No request for re-evaluation of the final decision received by the applicant will be considered. The admissions process will be followed in its entirety on the basis of the merit of the applicant. No formal or informal recommendations from any individual(s) will be entertained or considered.
Ashoka University invites you to apply to the programme(s) of your choice.





















Ashoka University aims to help students become well-rounded individuals who can think critically about issues from multiple perspectives, communicate effectively and become leaders with a commitment to public service. An Ashoka education carries a strong emphasis on foundational knowledge, thorough academic research based on rigorous pedagogy, and hands-on experience with real-world challenges.






























The YIF is unlike any other academic programme. Fellows come from diverse academic, professional, socio-economic and geographical backgrounds. Within a year, they engage with diverse areas of study, research and practice, enabled by leading thinkers and scholars of our time. This often helps them reimagine themselves and discover their passions.



























Ashoka University offers three types of postgraduate programmes at present. The first is the Young India Fellowship (YIF), a one-year multidisciplinary diploma programme in Liberal Studies. Fellows then, have the option to pursue their Masters in Liberal Studies (MLS) after graduating from the YIF. Fellows who have been accepted by an Ashoka University faculty mentor to work.






























Ashoka University invites applications for admission into Ph.D. programmes catering to all disciplines in the Humanities, Social Sciences, Mathematical Sciences and Physical Sciences. The programmes are available in the 9 disciplines, i.e. Biology, Chemistry, Computer Sciences, Economics, English, History, Physics, Psychology & Sociology and Anthropology.













Admission to Ashoka University is based on the merit and potential of the candidates, whereas the financial aid to students is dependent on their need and affordability. No student has ever been turned down due to his or her personal financial constraints.













































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University



















































 
