




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



















































As the parent or guardian of a prospective or current Ashoka College student, you are an important stakeholder in your student's educational journey. As such, you may have many questions about your student's academics, residential life, or overall experience. We hope the information on this page serves as a useful resource for you, as you share and support this unique journey. The Ashoka Parents Office has been set up to provide an exclusive point of contact and facilitate easy communication.

Please write to parents.office@ashoka.edu.in for any additional information that you require. 
































The Ashoka campus is a beautiful and safe space that fosters vibrant community living.  Campus life is one of the most distinctive and formative aspects of the University.





























Challenging and flexible course structures, taught by experienced faculty, many of whom are leading experts in their field.





























We practice a holistic approach of assessment that allows every candidate to present his or her unique identity throughout the admissions process.





























Ashoka University is committed to making its world-class education accessible & affordable for students from all walks of life. This is made possible through our need-based Financial Aid philosophy.





























The University has a number of specialist support services to aid students through challenging times, and enable them to fulfill their potential.
























Ashoka University’s students are recruited for diverse roles in Administration, Business Development, Employee Engagement, People’s Operations, Marketing, Finance Functions etc. The job titles of the graduating batch of Fellows range from Strategy Consultant to Data Analyst.





























Click here to learn more information on Academics, Residence Life, Dining and Medical, Safety and Security and International Students.




























































While many of our student connections and programs may be virtual in the months to come, the resources below are intended to provide important information that will aid in a smooth negotiation of University life.





















































Ashoka University is a philanthropic initiative and a shining example of the ‘power of giving’ in India. As we expand our campus and facilities, we invite you to make a difference and strengthen the excellence at Ashoka.







Your support in providing or facilitating internship and career opportunities will considerably widen the horizons for our students, setting them on the path to a successful life. 











A diverse body of students is one of Ashoka’s strengths. We seek your help in introducing us to schools in your area by setting up student recruitment events.








As a parent you know best how to support your son or daughter in attaining their college goals. Please join our orientation programmes to share your experiences and answer questions from parents of prospective or…








Specific scholarships can support students chosen on the basis of demonstrated academic achievement, leadership, citizenship, and financial need. Programme funding will help expand specific disciplines and centers of study.








Generous and steadfast donors can unlock a world of opportunity for students as they transition to becoming intellectually solid, thoughtful and responsible citizens.

























 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































