




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































The course will focus on issues related to Economic and Social networks.. The design of the course takes into account the fact that First year MA students will be studying game theory during this semester. Some elementary graph-theoretic concepts will also be used, but no prior knowledge will be assumed. The basic textbook for the course isMatt Jackson : Social and Economic Networks. Students are also strongly recommended to browse through Jackson’s second book The Human Network. This is a non-technical discussion of many of the main topics of current research. I will also mention other references as we go along.The main topics to be discussed are the following:1. Introduction : why study networks; graph-theoretic concepts2. Measures of centrality and Power3. Strategic Network Formation4. Games on Networks5. Learning on networks6. Diffusion


7. Networks in Some Specific Contexts






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































