




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:





































































Welcome to Ashoka University’s Undergraduate Admissions page for International Students! 
Ashoka University has a growing and vibrant community of international students currently enrolled in the undergraduate programme, who represent over 20 countries from across cohorts. Countries represented in our international community are Bangladesh, Kenya, Ethiopia, Bhutan, Nepal, UAE, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Rwanda, Burundi, Brazil, and more.
Ashoka University strives to give its international students the best of opportunities, immersing them in an inclusive environment to make them feel at home. The academic rigour, extracurricular activities and residential life programme allows students to learn, engage, connect, and build lasting relationships.





















Ashoka University’s undergraduate programme offers an interdisciplinary liberal arts and sciences education that focuses on academic research and intellectual growth. The Admissions Cycle has 4 Rounds. We encourage all International Students to apply in Rounds 1 & 2 to ensure that, if selected and offered admission to Ashoka University, they have enough time to receive adequate support with their oversees travel and visa processes. We wish you all the best as you prepare and participate in the application and admissions processes for the undergraduate degree programme.
Application Forms are now closed for the Academic Session starting in August 2023, and you will no longer be able to apply for this programme.
The Admissions Calendar for the academic session starting in August 2024 will be published in October 2023.



















Ashoka University’s holistic admissions process ensures that each application is evaluated in its unique context. The Admissions criteria and processes are based on principles and values held by Ashoka University. All applicants will be evaluated on their level of engagement with their academics, extra-curricular activities, interests and potential within their unique life journeys. Throughout their academic and residential life at Ashoka University, students work towards developing faculties and values such as:



















Below is the Fee Structure for the Academic Session commencing in August 2023




Components
First Year(AY 23-24)




Tuition
9,27,000


Residence
1,81,000


Total
11,08,000























The Financial Aid policies and processes for International students are the same as they are for Indian Students. All financial aid offered by the university is need-based while admissions related decisions are merit-based. Admissions decisions are not dependant on the candidate’s application for financial aid. If you would like to apply for financial aid you will be given the opportunity to do so only if you have been made an Offer of Admission to the Undergraduate Programme.
If you are made an Offer of Admission, you will be given the option to indicate your interest in applying for financial aid and will be required to fill out and submit an extensive Financial Aid Form to support your request. You will also be required to attach certain documents related to your family’s current financial status. Please fill in all the relevant details accurately.

























































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University



















































 

