




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

























The Financial Aid policies and processes for International students are the same as they are for Indian Students. All financial aid offered by the university is need-based while admissions related decisions are merit-based. Admissions decisions are not dependent on the candidate’s application for financial aid. If you would like to apply for financial aid you will be given the opportunity to do so only if you have been made an Offer of Admission to the Undergraduate Programme.
If you are made an Offer of Admission, you will be given the option to indicate your interest in applying for financial aid and will be required to fill out and submit an extensive Financial Aid Form to support your request. You will also be required to attach certain documents related to your family’s current financial status. Please fill in all the relevant details accurately.
To know more about our Financial Aid Policies, .




















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






















































