




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































Writing a dissertation, as you will soon realize, is an intimate andpersonal process. Some even go as far as calling it akin to childbirth,but I will spare you the gendered imagery. Yet, I will say it is indeedintimate, private, personal and momentous. At the same time, graduatestudents often feel that writing within an academic institution does notbear much relevance to their lives outside of academia. To dispel suchmyths and make more happy ones for ourselves, in this course we willask; How should we begin to think about writing? How is it possible tolearn to write? Is writing purely a technical craft? What is criticismand how do we write critically about literature?


 While we discuss and dissent on the answers to these questions, wewill also learn about all the delicate ways in which a hypothesis can beformulated, how to fashionably synthesize materials from writtensources, organize ideas in almost perfect forms and develop marvelouslycaptivating arguments. 


Writing a dissertation, as you will soon realize, is an intimate andpersonal process. Some even go as far as calling it akin to childbirth,but I will spare you the gendered imagery. Yet, I will say it is indeedintimate, private, personal and momentous. At the same time, graduatestudents often feel that writing within an academic institution does notbear much relevance to their lives outside of academia. To dispel suchmyths and make more happy ones for ourselves, in this course we willask; How should we begin to think about writing? How is it possible tolearn to write? Is writing purely a technical craft? What is criticismand how do we write critically about literature?


 While we discuss and dissent on the answers to these questions, wewill also learn about all the delicate ways in which a hypothesis can beformulated, how to fashionably synthesize materials from writtensources, organize ideas in almost perfect forms and develop marvelouslycaptivating arguments. 






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































