




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 






































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 










































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:























 









Centre for Writing and Communication










Centre for Writing and Communication (CWC) works closely with the academic community in Ashoka to develop critical thinking, writing and communication skills. CWC is the largest centre in Ashoka and works with all the diverse sections that make the Ashoka community: the entire student body (from the undergraduate students to research scholars), faculty, staff and other specialised centres in the university.
This is made possible by the diversity of the CWC team which is a vibrant group of scholars, professionals, writers and researchers whose combined expertise actively contributes to the interdisciplinary engagement at Ashoka.


















 













CWC’s interactions with the students are both in-class, through lectures, creative workshops, and one-on-one sessions. Through the year, the CWC provides writing and pedagogical support to courses across disciplines at Ashoka.
 



























Besides course-specific activities, the CWC organizes a broad range of creative and research activities that address a variety of skills under the umbrella of writing and communication. These events innovatively draw upon and analyse a diverse range of activities and media which are part of our daily lives: news, email, music, internet, media, board games, photographs, food, and jokes, to name a few. These are open to the public and follow a participatory format.



























Center for Writing and Communications organizes an annual conference (bringing together educators, scholars, students, and activists working in the field of education), Research Forum (a platform for the academic staff of the university to share their research), and Summer School (offering writing courses on research, academic and creative writing).



























CWC has maintained its media presence over the years on multiple social media platforms and through several initiatives, keeping student-specific needs in mind. Our social media handles have seen a consistent increase in engagement from our followers. Some of our most popular activities have been: book and film Recommendations on Instagram, our podcast series #BackToTheTutor, the YouTube series Shelf Pick where people from both academic and non-academic backgrounds take you through their all time favorite reads, and ‘Decoding College Applications’, in which graduate students advise prospective applicants and answer the most daunting questions about framing college applications. You can follow our work through our exclusive quarterly newsletter, as well as through Ashoka’s monthly bulletin called ‘Ashoka Reflections’.






























































                                            Sep 01 , 2022 07:09                                        

The Centre for Writing and Communication is actively involved with the subject of writing, communication, and writing pedagogy across genres,…




















                                            Mar 28 , 2022 03:03                                        

Now in its eighteenth year, the annual TOTO Awards celebrate emerging artistic talent in India.




















                                            Jun 01 , 2021 09:06                                        

23 and 24 April, 2021




















                                            Jun 01 , 2021 09:06                                        

The CWC offers three intensive workshops on diverse themes as part of its online summer school program in July 2021.




















                                            Jan 05 , 2021 09:01                                        

A workshop by the Centre for Writing and Communication at Ashoka University, on writing Imagist poetry.




















                                            Apr 09 , 2020 09:04                                        

CWC is offering two online workshops for its Summer School 2019-20: a creative writing workshop and a research writing workshop.




















                                            Dec 15 , 2019 09:12                                        

The Centre for Writing and Communication (CWC) is delighted to call for papers for its April 2020 conference on teaching…




















                                            Jun 02 , 2018 09:06                                        

Scholars and professionals from 13 institutions across the country were a part of the conference.




















                                            Mar 01 , 2018 09:03                                        

In the month of February this year, the Centre for Writing and Communication (CWC), Ashoka University, organised a two-week-long Research…




















                                            Mar 04 , 2015 09:03                                        

By integrating the CWC into the core of its academic programme, Ashoka University distinguishes itself from its institutional peers in…










































Senior Writing Tutor, Ashoka University															 Ph.D. (submitted) English and Cultural Studies, Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, Calcutta															




















Senior Writing Tutor, Ashoka University															 Ph.D. Human Geography, University of Cape Town															




















Writing Tutor, Ashoka University															 M.A. English, Ashoka University															




















Senior Writing Fellow, Ashoka University															 M.Phil English, University of Delhi															




















Writing Tutor, Ashoka University															 M.Sc. Science Communication, Imperial College London															




















Writing Tutor, Ashoka University															 M.Phil Comparative Literature and Translation Studies, Ambedkar University Delhi															




















Senior Writing Tutor, Ashoka University															 M.Phil Art History, Jawaharlal Nehru University															




















Director, Centre for Writing & Communication, Ashoka University															 Ph.D. History, Ambedkar University Delhi															




















Writing Tutor, Ashoka University															 M.Phil. English, Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University															




















Senior Writing Fellow (ELT), Ashoka University															 M.Phil English, University of Delhi															
























The Centre for Writing and Communication (CWC) Third Floor, Administrative Block Ashoka University













































































































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University





















































