




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 























































































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 



























































































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

























The Department of Biological Sciences at Ashoka University invites students to carry out cutting-edge research through its Ph.D. program in Biological Sciences. The university offers fully funded fellowships to select candidates. Six broad thematic areas characterize our research.

Behaviour, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Biophysics and Biochemistry
Cell and Developmental Biology
Chronobiology and Cognitive Neuroscience
Mathematical and Computational Biology

These thematic areas encompass the diversity in biological systems – in both length and complexity. State-of-the-art research facilities and a unique liberal arts environment allow Ph.D. students to work on inter-disciplinary research projects drawing on the expertise of faculty members within and beyond the Biology Department.
Principal Investigators listed below will be recruiting PhD students in admission cycle for August 2023.

**






 (Balaji Chattopadhyay as Co-PI)



 (Rama Akondy as Co-PI)
 (Anurag Agrawal as Co-PI)


 
**This faculty member will be recruiting externally-funded students who receive a scholarship from government or partner organisations.













A fixed number of attractive Ph.D. fellowships will be offered by Ashoka University to support the Ph.D. students (as per the rules and regulations). The fellowship includes a monthly stipend of INR 35,000 per month, a contingency grant of INR 20,000, and offers extensive teaching opportunities.
The monthly stipend and annual contingency grant given to Ph.D. students who receive other scholarships (from UGC, CSIR or a partner organization) will be decided based on terms covering the scholarship itself and as per the norms of the University.
Students will be provided off-campus housing and Rs. 7000 per month rent allowance towards this.











Applications to the Ph.D. program are invited from candidates with

A masters degree in any basic science discipline, including biology, chemistry, physics, computer science, and mathematics; or BTech/MBBS MTech/MPharm in applied sciences such as medicine and engineering; and
Qualification in a national entrance examination such as JGEEBILS/ BINC/ INSPIRE/CSIR-UGC/ ICMR/ GATE/JEST/ DST**. The scores obtained must be valid at the time of application.

 
** Candidates without a national eligibility test score who wish to pursue a Ph.D. in ecology and evolutionary biology are eligible to appear for a written examination at Ashoka.











To apply to the biology Ph.D. program the applicants should complete an . There is NO application fee.
Online applications should also include
1. A statement of research interests (maximum 2 pages)
A statement of research interest. We would like to learn about your interest in science so please answer the questions below in your own words. Applications with plagiarised (copied from somewhere) responses will not be considered.
Q1. What is the most favourite discovery in biology and why do you think it is significant? (Maximum 300 words)
Q2. What is the research question you would like to work on for your PhD? (Maximum 300 words). If there is a specific faculty at Ashoka whose area of research connects with your interest, please mention. You do not need to write specific protocols for experiments. We are looking for a conceptual level description (ie your basic understanding) of the problem you’re interested in working on.
Q3. What qualities do you think are needed in a good researcher? (maximum 300 words)
2. Two letters of recommendation
It is most helpful if letter writers know you well and are able to evaluate and attest your prior research experience/ training and your ability to perform at the graduate level. We prefer that the letter writers email us the letters from their official email addresses and include a phone number where we can reach out to for any clarification.
Referees may email the recommendation letters directly to phd.biology@ashoka.edu.in.
The subject of the email should be  ‘Recommendation_<candidate’s name>’.




















The applications for the 2023 August will close on 1 June 2023












The selection to the Ph.D. program in the Department of Biology is primarily based on our evaluation of

Your completed online application form and supporting documents including recommendations; and
Qualification in a national level examination.

Candidates without a national eligibility test score who wish to pursue a Ph.D. in ecology and evolutionary biology are eligible to appear for a written examination at Ashoka. Please note that candidates taking the written examination for the ecology and evolution program will not be considered for Ph.D. studies in other research areas in the Biology (General) Ph.D. program.
The selection process has two stages
Stage -1: Completed applications are reviewed by the faculty panel and shortlisted for an online interview.
Stage- 2: Preliminary interview at Ashoka will be scheduled in the month of June (3rd week). Exact dates will be communicated to the selected candidates
Candidates selected to the PhD program will be intimated in person and their names will be advertised on the departmental website.












Incomplete applications will not be considered.
Satisfying the eligibility criteria does not automatically guarantee selection to the interview.
Candidates with a 3-Yr bachelors degree are NOT eligible for the PhD program.
Individuals who hold a 4-yr bachelors degree such as BS or BSc(Hons.) in sciences, and wish to be considered for the PhD program, are requested to write to the program coordinator at biophd.coordinator@ashoka.edu.in to determine their eligibility.













Supporting materials such as letters of recommendation and statement of research interests may be sent to 
All other enquiries regarding the program may be directed to the biology Ph.D. program coordinator at 









































Associate Professor of Biology,  Ashoka University
  Ph.D. National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi




















Head of the Department, Biology, Professor of Biology,  Ashoka University
  Ph.D. Jawaharlal Nehru University




















INSA Senior Scientist,  Ashoka University.
  Ph.D. Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi.




















Assistant Professor,  Trivedi School of Biosciences,  Ashoka University
  Ph.D. Madurai Kamaraj University




















Faculty Fellow, Ramalingaswami Fellow,  Department of Biology
  Ph.D. in Behavioral Ecology at the National Centre for Biological Science




















Associate Professor of Biology and Chemistry,  Ashoka University 
  Ph.D. Indian Institute Of Chemical Biology




















Visiting Professor, Trivedi School of Biosciences, Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship,  Ashoka University
  Wellcome Trust International Senior Research Fellow. PhD Biochemistry, Washington State University, USA




















Associate Professor of Biology, Ashoka University
  DBT-Wellcome Trust Intermediate Fellow,  Ph.D. IISER Kolkata




















Assistant Professor of Biology,  Ashoka University
  Ph.D. Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER)-Thiruvananthapuram 




















Assistant Professor of Psychology and Biology, Ashoka University
  PhD, University of Massachusetts




















Dean, Research and Professor of Physics and Biology, Ashoka University
   Ph.D. Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore




















Assistant Professor of Biology, Co-ordinator (Ph.D. program in Biology)  Ashoka University
  DBT-Wellcome India Alliance Intermediate Fellow,  Ph.D. National University of Singapore




















Assistant Professor of Biology, Ashoka University
  Ph.D., University of California Riverside




















Associate Professor of Biology and Psychology, Ashoka University
  Ph.D. Harvard University




















Assistant Professor of Biology,  Ashoka University
  Ph.D. University of Montreal




















Visiting Professor of Biology (Honorary), Ashoka University
  Ph.D. University of Cambridge




















Wellcome Trust-DBT India Alliance Early Career Fellow, Department of Biology,   Ashoka University 
  Ph.D. IISER, Pune




















Associate Professor of Biology, Ashoka University,DBT-WellcomeTrust Senior Fellow,  Adjunct Faculty, Genetics department, University of Alabama at Birmingham
  Ph.D. CCMB, Hyderabad 



















1.     Can I apply to the Biology Ph.D. program if I have not taken any national entrance examination?
YES. Candidates without a national eligibility test score who wish to pursue a Ph.D. in ecology and evolutionary biology are eligible to appear for a written examination at Ashoka.
Selection to any of the other thematic areas as part of the Ph.D. program in Biology requires qualification in a national entrance examination mentioned before such as JGEEBILS/ INSPIRE/ BINC/ CSIR-UGC/ ICMR/ GATE/JEST. These scores have to be valid at the time of application. If you are not sure if your national examination is valid, please write to  or 
2.     I have a NET fellowship and would like to apply for Ph.D. in Biology. Is there a need for me to submit an application?
Yes, you still will be required to submit an application and the interviews thereafter. Ashoka provides supplementary allowances to fellowship holders by means of contingency funds  (in addition to that provided by the funding agency) and subsidized on-campus living facilities.
3.      I am keen to pursue a Ph.D., however, I am unable to decide which lab I wish to join at the time of application?
This is perfectly fine. You need not have identified a lab/mentor to join at the time of application. Once you are admitted into the Ph.D. program, you will have the option to carry out brief rotation projects in 2 or 3 labs of your choice. You may take this opportunity to experience the research in those areas and then make a decision on the lab to carry out your thesis research.
4.     Is it compulsory to submit letters of Recommendation?
Yes. It is an important component of your application dossier.
5.     How can I submit letters of recommendation?
You will have to fill in the contact email of your referees in the application portal. Make sure that your referee is aware of your application and the deadlines.
6.     How many Ph.D. positions are available?
There is no fixed number of positions available. The number of labs that can accommodate Ph.D. scholars every year varies. 
7.     Are there any teaching opportunities during the Ph.D. training?
Yes. All candidates admitted to the graduate program have the opportunity to hone their teaching skills by participating in various undergraduate lectures and laboratory courses. 
8.  Which labs have open positions in  the August 2023 cycle of PhD intake? Please note that some faculty are involved in multiple areas of research so listed accordingly.
Biophysics and Biochemistry:

Anup Padmanabhan
Shubhasis Haldar
Sougata Roy

Cell & Developmental Biology:

Anup Padmanabhan

Chronobiology and Cognitive Neuroscience:

Krishna Melnattur
Sougata Roy

Mathematical & Computational Biology:

Balaji Chattopadhyay
Sudipta Tung

Behaviour, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology:

Balaji Chattopadhyay
Divya Karnad
Imroze  Khan
Kritika Garg
Laasya Samhita
Meghna Agarwala
Sudipta Tung

Molecular and Structural Biology

Dilip Kumar
Laasya Samhita





















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






















































