




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:


































































The YIF Class of 2021-22 will comprise approximately 200 bright and curious young individuals from India and abroad, who will be handpicked through a rigorous and holistic selection process. They will be groomed over a year of residential multidisciplinary education and multidimensional learning at Ashoka University, following which they will belong to a global community of emerging leaders and change makers for the 21st century.
Fellows receive a post-graduate diploma in liberal studies from Ashoka University upon graduating (completing all required credits).
There is no application fee for the YIF. The Early Application Deadline is 7th January, 2021, while the Final Application Deadline is 12th April, 2021.





















The two criteria for eligibility are (1) a recognized undergraduate degree or equivalent (you can be in your final year at the time of application), and, (2) being no more than 28 years of age on 1st August, 2021. You may have work experience and/or a postgraduate credential as well.
What we look for




Intellectual Curiosity



Passion and Self-awareness



Potential for Impactful Leadership


















The YIF admissions process is split into two rounds. Each round accepts applications within a specified time-frame and selects Fellows from the pool of submitted applications in that round. Please note that you can apply only once in the admissions cycle and only in one round. In case you miss the early decision deadline, you can complete your application in the final round.






Application Open





Early Decision Deadline





Final Application Deadline


















The YIF selection process is designed to admit a diverse and outstanding class of individuals from India and abroad. The entire process is rigorous and holistic, and involves context specific review. We acknowledge that there are varying levels of access and privilege for different candidates, and as such, each applicant’s submission is reviewed in the applicant’s context.




Application



Written Test



Interview


















Ashoka University’s need-based Financial Aid programme aims to provide necessary financial support which can help you bridge the gap between the cost of the programme and your ability to pay. Several benefactors, including YIF alumni, have made financial aid possible.






of Fellows 2020-21 are on some form of need-based financial aid





of Fellows 2020-21 are on more than 50% tuition waivers





of all Fellows to date have been supported through financial aid













                    The Young India Fellowship has a growing and vibrant community of international students. Countries represented in our international community include United Kingdom, United States of America, Ireland, France, Pakistan, Ukraine, and more. If you are an international student, the YIF is a worthwhile opportunity for you to experience a multidisciplinary education that has a global outlook, while being rooted in Indian ethos. Please contact the office of admissions, we look forward to speaking with you.
                













































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University



















































 

