




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University





























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 































































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 



































































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



















































































The YIF Class of 2024 will comprise around 100 bright, curious and outstanding individuals from India and abroad, who will be handpicked through a rigorous and holistic selection process. They will be groomed over a year of residential multidisciplinary education and multidimensional learning at Ashoka University, following which they will belong to a global community of emerging leaders and change makers for the 21st century. 
Fellows will receive a post-graduate diploma in liberal studies from Ashoka University upon graduating (completing all required credits). 
Applications for the 2023 intake (Class of 2024) are now closed. To subscribe to our mailing list, please use the “Become a Fellow” pop-up form. 


































To be eligible for the Young India Fellowship’s 2023-24 intake, applicants should have completed a recognised undergraduate degree or equivalent in any discipline as of July 2023. 
Please Note: (1) Final year undergraduate students who will complete their degree or equivalent in the summer of 2023 are eligible to apply. Applicants may have work experience and/or a postgraduate credential. They may also be entrepreneurs, freelancers, in the middle of a gap year or preparing for competitive examinations, among others. (2) We welcome applicants of all age groups across diverse academic, geographical, professional and socioeconomic backgrounds.
While there is no typical profile of an ideal Fellow, the following should give you a broad sense of what we look for:




Intellectual Curiosity



Drive and Self-awareness



Leadership Potential





















The rigorous and holistic YIF selection process is split into two rounds, and is designed to admit a diverse and outstanding class of individuals from India and abroad. We acknowledge that there are varying levels of access and privilege for different candidates. Therefore, each applicant’s submission is reviewed in the applicant’s context. Each round accepts applications within a specified time-frame and selects fellows from the pool of submitted applications in that round. Please note that you can apply only once in the admissions cycle and only in one round. In case you miss the early application deadline, you can complete your application in the final round.
The different stages of the application and selection process are:




Application



Interview



Decision





















This section has information on the Programme Fee, Refund Policy, Education Loans, Need-based Financial Aid and the Chancellor’s Merit Scholarship.
 






of Fellows '23 are on need-based financial aid





of Fellows '23 are on more than 50% Tuition waivers.





Lakhs (INR), average Tuition paid by Fellows '23 on financial aid
















                    The YIF gives an unprecedented opportunity to any international student to experience a multidisciplinary education that has a global outlook, while being rooted in Indian ethos. The Young India Fellowship has a growing and vibrant community of international students from countries including the United Kingdom, United States of America, Ireland, France, Pakistan, Ukraine, Nepal and more.
                






































Our FAQs are organized thematically as follows: Admissions, Academics, Career Development, Extracurricular, Finances, Campus-related Facilities, and General Safety.
Click on any of the themes to look at the FAQs. If you do not find an answer to a question, please email us on yifadmissions@ashoka.edu.in and we will get back to you within 48 hours.










The admissions cycle for YIF is split into two rounds. For more information on the application dates please visit the timelines page. 











Applicants require, at the least, a recognized undergraduate or equivalent in any discipline by July 2023 or earlier. We welcome applications from individuals of all age groups and nationalities, across diverse academic, professional, geographic, socioeconomic and cultural backgrounds. Applicants can be final year students, preparing for competitive exams, pursuing a gap year, entrepreneurs, freelancers and working professionals.
Applicants may have work experience and/or a postgraduate credential, and can be from any background. 

























































Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































 

