




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:






























Each 1st semester student is assigned a Faculty Mentor- usually an experienced faculty who will serve as the student’s first academic point of contact. This mentor is available by appointment to discuss all academic issues including course selection, academic planning and liaising with another faculty. In semester 3, once the student has declared her major, the mentor is replaced by a Major Advisor- a faculty member from the chosen major discipline, who takes over the duties of the Faculty Mentor. Do encourage your student to meet with her mentor/ advisor regularly.











In the first semester, students fill in a Foundation Course Preference Form. 3 or 4 Foundation Courses are assigned to the student on the basis of this form through an algorithm. One section of Introduction to Critical Thinking, a mandatory course, may also be assigned through the same algorithm.  All students are also encouraged to attend the Orientation Sessions held by academic departments to get a sense of the kind of study involved in each discipline. At the end of semester 1, students must meet with their Faculty Mentor prior to registering for the next semester’s classes. Faculty Mentors and later Academic Advisors discuss requirements and help students develop a plan for the upcoming semesters.











Students view their grades through the Learning Management System. Parents and families can’t access student grades directly. We encourage you to maintain open lines of communication with your students so that they feel confident enough to share their grades with you. If a student is placed on academic review due to consistently poor performance, a letter is sent to the student and the parent.











First talk with your student about what resources are available on campus. They can (and should) talk with their faculty advisor and current faculty about getting help with assignments or they may visit the Center for Writing and Communication ( CWC), the tutoring and academic assistance center. If your student is unable to access these resources or if it seems too late for this to be helpful, have your student meet with an officer from the Office of Academic Affairs. The student can also, either on the advice of the mentor/ advisor or independently, seek extra help from the Office of Learning Support. Such support may also be provided on the recommendation of any of the student’s course instructors.











Economics, Psychology, Political Science and Computer Science have had the highest number of majors in recent years, but since all our Major Departments have excellent faculty, your student will be well-served in any of the programmes on offer.











The Ashoka Scholars Programme is a year- long postgraduate diploma that offers undergraduate students an exciting opportunity to broaden their academic horizons or acquire a deeper skill set in their chosen field of study. The programme gives students a distinct advantage over other undergraduate students in the job market, as well as for postgraduate study. In addition, students who want to pursue a Masters or a PhD degree abroad need an equivalent of a four-year undergraduate degree – e.g. in the US, but also elsewhere. The ASP year works very well to meet that requirement. More details of the ASP programme can be found here.











The break between Spring and Monsoon semester is called the Summer Semester. Students are encouraged to use this time for internships, independent study projects or to participate in Study Abroad opportunities. The University also offers an intensive six-week study programme, during the summer for undergraduate students. A range of four-credit courses is offered across disciplines. Enrolling for the summer term provides an opportunity for Ashoka students to take courses that helps to gain additional credits, accelerate in their academic pathway or simply explore other areas of interest. Specific programs change each year and students learn of them through departmental emails and postings around campus.











The Office of International Programmes provides Ashoka students with a range of resources and services as they explore international study abroad options, whether it is for the summer or a semester. The best advice we can offer for parent involvement is for you to learn as much as you can about the country where your student will be studying so you can ask good questions (and communicate often) while they are abroad. For more information, please visit Study Abroad webpage.


















We currently have five Residence Halls on campus, which are located adjacent to each other and close to the Dining Hall making it convenient to visit friends and go for meals. The halls have between 7-10 floors with about 20-35 rooms on each floor. Each floor has its own set of bathrooms with showers, toilets and sinks. The rooms are allotted on a twin sharing basis and are furnished with two beds and mattresses, book racks, wardrobes, study desks and chairs. Each room also has windows to allow for adequate natural light. The Common Rooms on the ground floor of each Hall come equipped with upholstered chairs, couches and tables to accommodate work and social interactions.











The University is required to assign student housing based on the gender designation in their official University record (through the Office of the Registrar). Incoming students are assigned roommates with the help of relevant information provided by them through the ‘Roommate Matching’ form. Returning students are allowed to choose their preferred roommate through the ‘Roommate Preference’ form. All batches of students are allotted roommates from within their own batch.











No student is allowed to change their allotted room or roommate without official authorization. However, students may request a room change for reasons such as non- functioning of room facilities or any other difficult room experience such as roommate conflicts. We strongly encourage roommates to first communicate with one another carefully and responsibly in an attempt to improve their living situation. If that does not lead to positive outcomes, the student can approach their Resident Assistant (RA) about the conflict; the RA will initiate a mediation process to address the conflict in the best possible manner. After the mediation, further options may also be explored to ensure a healthy living environment for the student.











Students can meet off-campus visitors in the Residence Halls’ common room only between 8:00 am and 8:00 pm. Visitors do not have access to the student rooms and won’t be allowed on campus premises outside the stipulated hours. Students are allowed to visit each other’s rooms in different Residence Halls irrespective of their gender at all times between 08:00 am to 12:30 am.











Yes. Students can use the pantry area on each floor, which is equipped with an induction plate, microwave oven, refrigerator and has common storage cupboards and dishwashing area. However, students are not allowed to use any personal appliances (coffee makers, mini-fridge, induction/hot plates, etc.) inside the Residence Halls.











In an effort to encourage a comfortable studying and resting environment for all students, Quiet Hours on campus, including the Residence Halls, are to be observed between 01:00 am to 07:00 am every day. During Quiet Hours, students are expected to refrain from playing music or creating loud noise in the Residence Hall rooms, washrooms, hallways etc.











Ashoka offers a web of extracurricular activities, striking a fine balance between activities that are fun and those that are intellectually challenging. Students are encouraged to pursue their hobbies and interests through an array of existing Clubs and Societies  and also have the opportunity to initiate new clubs or societies, subject to relevant policies. Information about events and activities conducted by these student groups is shared regularly with the entire Ashoka community through email, social media, and campus postings. There is also a range of active and invigorating Sports Programmes across a dozen disciplines, complete with world-class facilities.


















Subscription to dining services as per the minimum cover charge is mandatory for all the students. Meals over the value of the cover charge are charged at cost per meal. Various eateries on campus offer further variety in food, some of which remain open through the night with delivery options for students’ convenience. The general provisions shop on campus stocks some fresh fruit in addition to packaged items.











Dining Services is able to accommodate some dietary needs/restrictions and under special medical circumstances can work with students to meet their requirements, including developing a plan that may include special menu items, ingredient identification, special preparation, and communication to necessary staff to ensure that your student can eat safely. Please contact the 











The University provides primary health care services, including minor emergency treatment such as burns, minor lacerations, sprains, or strains to all students. A doctor and paramedical staff are available on campus 24*7. Medicines and tests prescribed by the resident doctor are available on chargeable basis.











In case of severe illnesses the parents or the family are informed immediately. The student (if medically alert and conscious), will also be kept in loop while notifying the parent(s) or guardian. For emergencies, the University has an arrangement with Max Hospital, Shalimar Bagh. A medical ambulance is available on campus 24*7.
All students of the University are covered under an insurance of INR 1 Lac applicable upon hospitalization of 24 hours or more.











Encourage your student to seek help anytime she is feeling anxious, having sudden mood changes, or there is some sort of distress, feelings of helplessness or confusion, academic pressures, relationship troubles or adjustment issues. She could:

speak with her student residential assistant (RA). Residential life staff are trained to assist students with accessing campus resources;
make an appointment at Ashoka Center for Well Being (ACWB). The counseling center offers 24-hour mental health services and a myriad of other counseling services. The counseling center is open to all Ashoka students free of charge.












Obtaining counseling services is an individual decision. If you feel like your student may benefit from counseling, talk to them. Explain your thoughts and feelings. Remember, they are adults now, beginning to make their own decisions and only they can decide if counseling is a service they wish to obtain. Ultimately, the choice is theirs. Understanding Transition is a session for students and parents held by the Ashoka Center for Well Being( ACWB) each year during Orientation Week. We strongly encourage you to attend it.


















Ashoka University is now a preferred destination for several leading recruiters across the corporate and social sector.  The CDO assists students in aligning their aptitude with their interests and skills, and guides them to pursue fulfilling opportunities. CDO offers unlimited one-to-one counselling, resume workshops, mock interviews, and skill-building workshops, and hosts a multitude of eminent professionals from diverse industries to share their experiences .  Read more about career development opportunities here











The Office of Global Education and Strategic Programmes provides regular support to students exploring higher education opportunities by organizing Graduate Information Sessions and Town Halls. In addition, the office staff meet students frequently to provide assistance relevant to the students’ interests and academic journeys, including with programme applications, visa applications and scholarship opportunities. Information on interesting research internships and other unique opportunities is communicated through emails and campus postings.


















International students face changes in nearly every aspect of their life when they leave home to study abroad. Changes in diet, sleeping patterns and climate may affect their health and well-being. Students should provide a copy of their medical records, including immunizations and vaccinations, to the health center when they arrive on campus. These records should show all medicines or treatments the student is using. This will help doctors, and other health care professionals provide safe care if the student has a new health problem.
Under normal circumstances, students are expected to keep family members informed of their illnesses. However, the Office of Student Life will notify the family in the event of serious illness or accident that requires extensive treatment or hospitalization.
All students of the University are covered under an insurance of INR 1 Lac applicable upon hospitalization of 24 hours or more.











Mobile SIM cards may be obtained at the SIM Card kiosk on campus, after completing all necessary documentation. Detailed information and support is provided to students during days of the onboarding of the new cohort in the new academic year. SIM cards are available in prepaid and post-paid segments. CUG and circle portability facility can be availed by the users.











Each international student is paired up with a ‘buddy’, a senior student who will help the new student negotiate the campus as well as residential and academic life. All staff on campus, including support staff understand some English. 











For all international students, the Office of Student Affairs in conjunction with the Finance Department will provide assistance in opening a local bank account.
They will also be provided support by the IO and Registrar’s Office for registering for the FRRO i.e. Foreigner registration which is a mandatory requirement by the Government of India. Under FRRO all foreign nationals visiting India on a long term visa are required to register themselves with a Registration Officer within 14 days of arriving in India.
You will find more details on the necessary information on important requirements and documents .



























 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































