 
PHYSICS HANDBOOK  
2020 -21 
 
 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS  
ASHOKA UNIVERSITY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                 1 
Contents  
1. Introduction                                                                                        2 
2. Physics Major - Typical Trajectory               3 
3. Physics Minor and Concentration                                        4  
4. General Information on the Phy sics courses                                5 
5. List of Physics Courses                                                                       
➢  Core/ Compulsory  Courses           5 
➢ Elective  Physics Courses           9 
➢ Cross -listed Electives            9  
6. Physics ASP                                                                                         10 
7.  TF/TA -ship Policy                                                                            12 
8.  ISM                                                                                                       12 
9. Faculty                                                                                                  13 
10.  FAQs                     20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  2 
 Introduction  
Physics is a doorway to some of the most beautiful and profound phenomena 
in the universe like black holes, supernovae, Bose -Einstein condensates, 
superconductors. It is, simultaneously, a driver of lifestyle -changing 
technology, e.g., engines, electricity, and transistors; and a powerful way of 
perceiving and analyzing problems that can be applied in various domains, 
both within and outside standard physics. The beauty and profundity of the 
phenomena studied by physicists offer romance and excite passion, and the 
utility of its discoveries and th e power of its methods arouse interest.  
 
These methods can be very intricate and demanding: theoretical physics 
requires a skilful combination of physical and mathematical thinking, and 
experimental physics requires in addition the ability to turn tentati ve ideas 
into physical devices that can put those ideas to the test. As a result, the 
successful practice of physics demands rigour, flexibility, mechanical 
adroitness, persistence, and great imagination. The physicist’s imagination is 
nourished not just b y physics but also by other areas of human enquiry and 
thought, of the kind that an Ashoka undergraduate is expected to encounter.  
 
With all of this in mind, the physics programme has been designed to:  
(i) allow students wishing to major in physics to discov er real physics and 
make a wise choice, in the first year;  
(ii) provide, throughout, a thorough training in fundamental physics;  
(iii) bring together everything learnt earlier, and give students the option to 
pursue more advanced courses in physics or branch out into other 
areas, in the third year. The idea is to accompany those wishing to 
become professional physicists as they take the f irst steps in that 
direction, and to introduce everyone who goes through the programme 
to the physicist’s way of thinking.                   3 
Physics Major – Typical Trajectory  
Semester 2: Discovering UG -level Physics  
A student wishing to major, minor, or pursue a concentration in Physics is 
expected to take the introductory course in calculus (Calculus I) offered by the 
Mathematics Department. Students wishing to major in Physics should plan 
to take it in their first s emester.  
 
Requirement for Physics major : 13 core physics courses + 2 electives (60 
credits)  
 
The physics -major sequence begins in semester 2, with two courses, one in 
theoretical physics and the other in experimental physics. The first purpose of 
these c ourses is to provide an experience of UG level physics on the basis of 
which a student can decide whether or not to major in physics, i.e., they are 
gateway courses.  The second purpose of these courses is to serve as an 
introduction to the physicist’s way of thinking about problems and solving 
them, something that has proved useful not just to physicists but also to those 
in other disciplines that make use of quantitative methods and experiments, 
e.g., mathematics, computer science, economics, psychology, a nd biology.  
 
Semester 3, 4 and 5:  The Physics Core  
 
The physics courses in these 3 semesters form the core of the physicist’s 
undergraduate canon. Anyone majoring in physics is expected to be thorough 
in these areas. Each semester has 2 -3 theory courses and an accompanying lab.  
 
Semester 6:  Exploring more advanced options  
 
The student can opt for elective courses: each student majoring in physics is 
required to take at least two. From the student’s point of view, the electives 
chosen is likely to indicate a post -graduate direction – towards theoretical 
physics, towards experimental physics or perhaps away from physics into an 
allied discipline that would benefit from training in physics.  
 
 
 
 
                  4 
Physics Minor  or Concentration  
 
To Minor in physics a student must do six courses in physics (24 credits). Of 
these the two gateway courses – MP1 and Lab 1 – are compulsory. At least two 
more courses should be taken from among the core courses offered in 
semesters 3, 4, and 5, provided a ppropriate prerequisites have been satisfied 
for these courses (recommended courses: Classical Mechanics and Thermal 
Physics).  
 
The remaining two may be either other compulsory or elective courses offered 
by the Physics Department or cross -listed with Phy sics, provided appropriate 
prerequisites have been satisfied. In place of one elective course, a student may 
take an Independent Study Module (ISM) of equivalent credit.  
 
 
For a Concentration in physics a student must do six courses in physics (16 
credits ). Of these the two gateway courses – MP1 and Lab 1 – are compulsory.  
 
At least two more courses should be taken from among the core courses offered 
in semesters 3, 4, and 5, provided appropriate prerequisites have been 
satisfied for these courses (recomm ended courses: Classical Mechanics and 
Thermal Physics)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  5 
General Information on the Physics Courses  
Mathematical level  — All theory courses are calculus -based. The level of 
mathematical sophistication will increase progressively. The mathematical -
physics courses will be application -oriented rather than proof -oriented. 
Familiarity with +2 level physics and mathematics is a ssumed.  
 
Labs — All lab courses will involve extensive use of instruments to make 
observations. These experiments will in general illustrate ideas studied in the 
accompanying theory courses.  
 
The use of computers  — Many theory courses will include computa tional 
exercises, generally using the programming language Python. Labs will also 
require the use of computers.  
 
Duration —  
Theory courses: two lectures a week each lasting 1.5 hours. In addition, there 
may be a 1.5 -hour tutorial per week . 
 
Laboratory: one 3 -hour main lab session per week and one 3 -hour extra 
session per week for lab course.  
 
List  of Physics Courses  
Compulsory/Core Courses  
Mathematical Physics 1 (Gateway course: semester 2)  
This course aims to familiarise the student with a variety of mathematical 
techniques which every student of physics should be conversant with. Having 
taken the course,  you should be comfortable with casting a wide variety of 
physics problems in mathematical language and being able to analyse  and 
solve them subsequently. The course will also include an introduction to 
programming with Python. Within the physics curriculu m at Ashoka 
university, this course is an essential prerequisite for Classical Mechanics 
and Electricity and Magnetism in Light of Relativity offered in the third 
semester.  
 
Pre-requisites: Students who have not done mathematics at the 12th -grade 
level are required to take Calculus I.                   6 
Physics Lab 1 (Gateway course: semester 2)  
An introduction to physics through experiments. The goal of this introductory 
lab is to help students develop the skills needed for experimental physics. 
Students  will be introduced to the basic concepts of data collection, analysis, 
and interpretation over the span of the course by working on different 
experimental problems which have been carefully selected to represent 
different branches of physics.  
 
Pre-requis ites: none.  
 
Classical Mechanics (semester 3)   
Newtonian mechanics and an introduction to Lagrangian  and Hamiltonian 
mechanics. Newtonian mechanics is, both historically and otherwise, the 
starting point of all of physics. The  Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formulations 
of classical mechanics allow a more profound vision of the subject while also 
introducing  the language in which much of higher -level theoretical physics is 
expressed.  
 
Pre-requisites: MP1  
 
Electricity & Magnetism in Light of Relativity (semester 3 )  
The beautiful theory of electricity and magnetism is, with classical mechanics, 
the heart of c lassical physics. What is often not appreciated at the 
undergraduate level is that electricity and magnetism are related in a way that 
reveals the structure of space -time. In this course relativity will be used from 
the beginning to relate electric and mag netic fields, so that their unity, as 
components of the electromagnetic field are revealed and used in the study of 
Maxwell’s Equations.  
 
Pre-requisites: MP1  
 
Physics Lab 2 (semester 3)   
Designed to accompany the theory courses Classical Mechanics and Ele ctricity 
& Magnetism in Light of Relativity, this laboratory course explores their 
experimental foundations. Students will be introduced to video -analysis and 
modelling to study elastic and inelastic collisions, uniformly accelerated 
motion, and terminal v elocity. In addition, students will also be introduced to 
physical systems exhibiting electromagnetic damping, resonant electronics 
circuits, and two -dimensional electrostatics.  
 
Pre-requisites: Physics Lab 1  
 
                  7 
Mathematical Physics 2 (semester 4 )  
This mathematical physics course aims to be an introduction to differential 
equations. Besides standard topics in ordinary and partial differential 
equations, nonlinear dynamical systems will be studied and nonlinear ODEs 
will be analysed using geometric a nd computational tools. Fourier series will 
also be studied.  
 
Pre-requisites: MP1  
 
Thermal Physics (semester 4)   
An Integrated Approach to Thermodynamics and Kinetic Theory. There are 
three approaches to study systems with large numbers of atoms and 
molec ules, which exhibit properties like temperature and entropy: kinetic 
theory, classical thermodynamics, and statistical mechanics. In this course, 
these three approaches will be taught in an integrated fashion.  
 
Pre-requisites: Mathematical Physics 1.  
 
Oscillations, Waves, and Optics (semester 4)   
Oscillatory phenomena appear in all areas of physics, both classical and 
quantum (to the point where a famous textbook begins by saying that the 
domain of physics is all phenomena that can be reduced to coupled  
oscillators). The methods used to study oscillatory motion are powerful and 
wide -ranging in their utility.  
 
Pre-requisites: MP1, Classical Mechanics and Electricity & Magnetism.  
 
Physics Lab 3 (semester 4)   
Designed to accompany the theory courses Therma l Physics and Oscillations, 
Waves & Optics, this laboratory course explores their experimental 
foundations.  Students will be introduced to the properties of light as a wave: 
interference, diffraction, and polarisation, through conceptually rich 
experiments  like the Michelson Interferometer. In addition, mechanical 
systems which exhibit oscillatory behaviour, like coupled pendula and 
capillary waves, will also be studied. Students will also be introduced to ideas 
of thermometry and calibration.  
 
Pre-requisi tes: Physics Lab I.  
 
 
 
 
                  8 
Quantum Mechanics (semester 5)   
This course is an introduction to Quantum Mechanics (QM). Starting with a 
historical introduction and motivation, it goes on to introduce probability 
amplitudes as the fundamental physical basis for QM. Using the Dirac bra -ket 
notation, the fundamental postulates are then introduced and their 
consequences worked out. The basic physical concepts are illustrated through 
spin -½ systems and one -dimensional wave mechanics. Symmetries and 
Conservation laws in QM are discussed, an introduction to the basic theory of 
angular momentum and spin is given, and the course culminates with the first 
major triumph of QM - a quantum mechanical understanding of the hydrogen 
atom.  
 
Pre-requisites: Classical Mechanics, M athematical Physics I and II.  
  
Strongly recommended: Linear Algebra (Department of Mathematics).  
 
Statistical Mechanics (semester 5)   
Statistical mechanics allows one to solve problems involving large numbers of 
particles by exploiting statistical regularities. When combined with quantum 
mechanics, it helps physicists to understand some of the most fascinating 
phenomena in the universe. This course is an introduction to the essential 
concepts of the subject.  
 
Pre-requisites: Thermal Physics.  
 
Physics Lab 4 (semester 5)   
Designed to accompany the two theory courses Quantum Mechanics and 
Statistical Mechanics; this laboratory course explor es their experimental 
foundations. Students will be introduced to some of the experiments which 
require Quantum Mechanics in order to be explained, notably discrete atomic 
spectra and the Zeeman Effect. The lab will also contain experiments on 
Brownian Mot ion and the determination of other properties of matter like 
magnetic susceptibility.  
 
Pre-requisites: Physics Lab I.  
 
The Physics of Matter (semester 6 )  
In real physical systems the various areas of fundamental physics that are 
studied separately in pre vious semesters are usually required all at once. The 
purpose of this course is to show how fundamental physics can be used to 
study a number of interesting phenomena.  
 
Pre-requisites: All mandatory courses in the physics -major sequence.                   9 
Elective Physics Courses  
 
Elective courses (for the 3rd and 4th year) are listed below. Please refer to the 
course webpage for further details. These courses may be at the advanced UG 
or beginning graduate level. Note that all electives may not be offered every 
year.  
 
Quantum Mechanics 2 : a natural sequel to Quantum Mechanics in 
semester 5.  
 
Mathematical Physics 3 : focusing mainly on complex analysis and 
integral transforms.  
 
Computational Physics:  This course introduces different numerical 
techniques useful in solving problems of interest in physics.  
 
Cosmology  (first offered in Monsoon 2020 by Prof. Vikram Vyas)  
 
Soft Matter Physics  (first offered in Monsoon 2020 by Prof. Gautam 
Menon)  
 
Non -equilibrium Statistical Mechanics  (first offered in Spring 
2021 by Prof. Somendra Bhattacharjee)  
 
Symmetry in Physics: Lie Algebras, Groups and 
Representations  (first offered in Spring 2021 by Prof. Amin A. Nizami)  
 
 
Cross -listed Elective Courses  
 
Students can take, as electives, for cred it the following cross -listed 
courses from other departments. They need to have taken the 
required prerequisite courses or otherwise have consent from the 
instructor . 
 
PHY1001/ MAT1001: Linear Algebra (cross -listed with Department of 
Mathematics)  
 
PHY3513/  PHY6313/ BIO3513/ BIO6313: Computational and Mathematical 
Biology (cross -listed with the Department of Biology.  
 
PHY301/ BIO211: Biophysics (cross -listed with the Department of Biology )                  10 
PHY3020/ BIO3020: Ecology (cross -listed with the Department of Biology)  
 
PHY3314/BIO3314: Forces and Motion in Biology (cross -listed with the 
Department of Biology)  
  
PHY1208/ CS1208: Probability and Statistics (cross -listed with the 
Department of Computer Science)  
 
PHY1101/ CS1101: Introduction to Programming (cross -listed with the 
Department of Computer Science).  
 
PHY1390/ CS1390: Introduction to Machine Learning (cross -listed with the 
Department of Computer Science)  
 
PHY3901/ ES3901: Remote Sensing (cross -listed with the Department of 
Environmental Studies)  
 
Physics ASP (Fourth Year)  
The fourth year ASP provides t he opportunity for students to study physics at 
a level more advanced than the usual undergraduate level. Alternatively, 
students wishing to broaden their education further can use it to take a 
minor/concentration in any other subject or simply take whatev er courses in 
any department they wish to.  
 
Advanced Major  
The advanced major is for students intending to pursue higher studies and 
research in physics. It would enable them to take some advanced physics 
courses as well as get an idea of research through  the capstone project/thesis.  
 
Requirements:   
7th Semester:  Required to take 16 credits of which the capstone project 
comprises 8 credits. The students can opt for 1 or 2 courses comprising 4 
credits/course.  
 
8th Semester:  Required to take 16 credits of which the capstone project 
comprises 8 credits. The students can opt for 1 or 2 courses comprising 4 
credits/course.  
 
Over the whole year (2 semesters), some courses apart from Thesis may also 
be taken from outside the physics department .                  11 
Capstone Project  and Thesis:  
 
Interested students should talk, in their 6th semester, to prospective advisors 
about possible projects. After mutual agreement - the advisor agrees to guide 
the student and the student agrees to work on one of the projects suggested 
by the advisor - stude nts should start with necessary background reading / 
preliminary work over the summer before the start of the fourth year.  
 
At the end of the 7th semester the project would be assessed with a 
presentation and report - this will be evaluated by the physics  faculty. 
Students without satisfactory progress at this stage may not continue for the 
thesis subsequently.  
 
At the end of the 8th semester the thesis has to be submitted and defended 
before a panel which may also include some external members. It is 
mandatory to successfully complete the capstone project and thesis to be 
eligible for the advanced major.  
 
Other options (Minor/Concentration)  
 
Students not opting for the advanced major can take courses as per their 
interest in the fourth year. It is reco mmended that physics majors take two 
physics electives over the year. Those minoring in physics (or taking it as a 
concentration) may take physics courses accordingly to meet the necessary 
requirements.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  12 
TF/TA -ship Policy  
❖ The Teaching Fellows are recruited after a departmental screening 
process.  
 
❖ Fourth year (ASP) physics students can be TAs for some of the 
introductory physics courses. This depends on the departmental 
requirement and the position may be offered either for credits or may 
be a paid position.  
 
❖ MLS students are assigned to be TAs as a part of their academic 
requirements.  
 
Independent Study Module (ISM)  
❖ Students may opt for an ISM if interested and if a faculty member is 
available for this purpose.  
 
❖ A successfully completed ISM would contribute 2 to 4 credits to the 
student’s GPA.  
 
 
❖ Students who wish to take up an ISM should contact the Professor 
under whose guidance they wish to work to discuss details.  
 
 
 
                  13 
Faculty   
 
Somendra M. Bhattacharjee  
Head of the Department, Physics  
Professor of Physics  
Ashoka University  
Ph.D. Carnegie Mellon University  
 
Mail :  somendra.bhattacharjee@ashoka.edu.in  
 
Somendra Mohan Bhattacharjee received his Ph.D. in Physics from Carnegie 
Mellon University, Pittsburgh, USA, B.  Sc in Physics (Honours) from 
Presidency Colle ge, Calcutta, and M. Sc. in Physics from the University of 
Calcutta. After doing post -doctoral research at the University of 
Massachusettes, Amherst, USA, and Bell  Labs, Murray Hill, he joined the 
Institute of Physics, Bhubaneswar as a faculty member and c ontinued till 
April 2019.  
His research interest is in theoretical condensed matter physics and biology -
inspired physics mostly related to phase transitions.  The force -induced 
unzipping transition of DNA is one of his most important contributions. He 
is a fellow of the Indian National Science Academy and Indian Academy of 
Sciences, and a J C Bose National Fellow. He was a Regular Associate of 
ICTP, Trieste, Italy.  
 
 
                 14 
Sabyasachi Bhattacharya  
C.V. Raman University Professor at Ashoka 
University  
Post -Doctoral Research, MIT  
Ph.D. Northwestern University  
 
Mail :  
sabyasachi.bhattacharya@ashoka.edu.in  
 
Professor Sabyasachi Bhattacharya is a physicist and works on dynamical 
aspects of dis ordered condensed matter systems. He is a Distinguished 
Professor at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) of which he 
was the former Director. Professor Bhattacharya received his B.Sc. at the 
Presidency College, Kolkata, M.Sc. at the Universit y of Delhi, and his Ph.D. at 
Northwestern University, all in Physics. He conducted post -doctoral research 
at the National Magnet Laboratory at MIT, University of Rhode Island. He 
was at the University of Chicago as a James Franck Distinguished Fellow 
befor e joining the Exxon Corporate Research Laboratory. He subsequently 
worked at the NEC Research Institute at Princeton where he was the Chair of 
the NEC Board of Fellows.  
Professor Bhattacharya currently serves, among other organizations, on the 
Editorial Bo ard of the Reports on Progress in Physics, the Technology 
Advisory Council of British Petroleum, the IIT -Council of the Ministry of 
Human Resource Development and the Council of IIT -Bombay and the 
Mentor Group of Presidency University, Kolkata. He is a fre quent visitor to 
the New York University, the University of Chicago, the Cavendish 
Laboratory and the Trinity College at the University of Cambridge. He is a 
                 15 
Fellow of the American Physical Society. Apart from Physics, he is interested 
in higher education policy in India related specially to science and technology 
research.  
Professor Bhattacharya was a Non -Resident Senior Fellow at CASI from 
September 2012 through August 2013.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  16 
 
 
Gautam Menon  
Professor of Physics and Biology,   
Ashoka University.  
 Ph.D. Indian Institute of Science, 
Bangalore  
 
Mail : gautam.menon@ashoka.edu.in  
 
Gautam I Menon is a Professor of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University. 
Prior to joining Ashoka, he was a Professor with the Theoretical Physics and 
Computational Biology groups at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, 
Chennai, where he was the founding Dean of the Computational Biology 
group. He is curren tly an adjunct Professor in the Department of Biological 
Sciences at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, India.  
He completed a BSc. (Hons) in Physics at St. Stephens College, Delhi,  an 
MSc from IIT Kanpur, and a Ph.D. from the Indian Insti tute of Science, 
Bangalore. Following post -doctoral work at the Tata Institute of 
Fundamental Research in Mumbai and the Simon Fraser University in 
Vancouver, Canada, he joined the Institute of Mathematical Sciences.  His 
research work, spread over approxi mately 80 papers, covers a range of areas 
in both physics and biophysics. He has written several articles on the 
interface of science and society  as well as on science policy.  
He was awarded a DST Fast Track Fellowship for Young Scientists in 2002 
and the Swarnajayanti Fellowship of the DST in 2005. He was named a DAE -
                 17 
SRC Outstanding Research Investigator in 2010. He was named an 
Outstanding Referee by the American Physical Society in 2012, as well as 
recognized as an Outstanding Reviewer of the UK -based "R eports on 
Progress in Physics" in 2016.  He was a Visiting Professor at the 
Mechanobiology Institute and the Department of Biological Sciences at the 
National University of Singapore between 2011 -2013.  He has served on 
scientific review committees of seve ral international agencies , including the 
Human Frontier Science Program and the Wellcome Trust -DBT India 
Alliance. His research has been funded by several national and international 
agencies, including the European Union, the Indo -French CEFIPRA as well 
as the DBT, DST and DAE in India. He has lectured in universities and 
scientific conferences around the world and in India, including in the USA, 
Canada, France, Germany, Switzerland, Singapore, the Netherlands and the 
UK. He was elected a Fellow of the Nat ional Academy of Sciences, India  in 
2019.  
He works on a number of biophysical problems including nuclear 
architecture, axonal transport, collective cell migration and cell adhesion, all 
in the general field of mechanobiology. The modeling of infectious di sease 
and its implications for public policy is a long -standing interest of his, while 
the use of machine learning methods in clinical contexts is a more recent one.  
 
 
                  18 
Amin Nizami  
Assistant Professor of Physics,  
Ashoka University  
Ph.D. University of Cambridge  
(Current Course coordinator of Physics)  
 
Mail :  amin.nizami@ashoka.edu.in  
 
Amin received his PhD in Theoretical Physics from the University of 
Cambridge (working at the Department of Applied Mathematics and 
Theoretical Physics). His main research interests include various aspects of 
quantum  field theory, quantum chaos, quantum in formation and 
holography. His main area of specialisation is in conformal field theory and 
the conformal bootstrap.  
 
Earlier he obtained his BSc in Physics (with Mathematics and Statistics) from 
AMU, Aligarh, India and Masters (Part III of Mathematical Tr ipos) in 
Theoretical Physics from the University of Cambridge . 
 
Prior to joining Ashoka he was a postdoctoral fellow at the International 
Centre for Theoretical Sciences ( ICTS -TIFR) and a research associate at the 
Centre for High Energy Physics, Indian I nstitute of Science . 
 
 
 
                 19 
 
 
Pramoda Kumar  
Ph.D. Coordinator of Physics,  
Assistant Professor of Physics,  
Ashoka University  
Ph.D. Centre for Liquid Crystal Research 
(renamed as Centre for Nano and Soft Matter Sciences), Bangalore  
Mail :  pramoda.kumar@ashoka.edu.in  
Research Experience:  
● The Jacob Blaustein  Institutes for Desert Research - Ben Gurion 
University of the Negev, Israel (Blaustein Postdoctoral Fellow Nov. 
2015 - Feb. 2019)  
●  Centre for Nano and Soft Matter Sciences, Bangalore (Visiting 
Scientist, May 2015 – Sept. 2015)  
● Harvard -School of Engineerin g and Applied Sciences, Cambridge 
(Postdoctoral fellow, Sept. 2013 - Feb, 2015).  
● Weizmann Institute of Science, Israel (Feinberg  Graduate School 
Postdoctoral Fellow, Dec. 2012 – Aug. 2013)  
● Max -Plank Institute for Dynamics and Self -Organization, Goettingen 
(Postdoctoral Fellow, Sept. 2010 - Oct.2012)  
Research Interest:  
Experimental soft -condensed matter physics, pattern formation in 
dissipative systems, interface instability, charge transport phenomena in ion -
selective membranes, bio -physics and non -Newtonian  hydrodynamics  
 
                 20 
Frequently Asked Questions  
 
1. What are going to be the mandatory courses to pursue a minor in Physics?  
Answer: The gateway courses (Mathematical and Computational Toolkit and 
Laboratory 1) are the mandatory courses to pursue a physics minor. Apart 
from these two, the student is expected to take 4 courses of their choice. Of 
these 4 courses at least two should be taken from among the other core 
courses. The remaining two can be core or elective courses and one of them 
can also be  an ISM. So, in total a student has to do 6 courses to complete a 
minor in Physics.  
 
2. What are the mandatory courses for a concentration in Physics?  
Answer: The gateway courses (Mathematical and Computational Toolkit and 
Laboratory 1) are the mandatory courses to pursue a physics concentration. 
Apart from these two, the student is expected to take 2 courses of their choice 
from among the core courses. So, in total a student has to do 4 courses to 
complete a concentration in Physics.  
  
3. What are the man datory courses for the Ashoka Scholar Programme (ASP) 
students?  
Answer: A project (Capstone project) and the Capstone thesis are mandatory 
for an Advanced Major in Physics.   
 
                  21 
4. Will the mandatory courses be offered every semester?  
Answer: The mandatory gateway courses are offered in the spring semesters. 
Other core courses are spread throughout the 6 semesters. All courses are not 
offered in every semester.  
 
5. What are the prerequisites to major in Physics?  
Answer: The student is expected to have a sci ence/mathematics background 
in their high school (at +2 level). Calculus is a recommended course to be 
taken in their first semester.  
 
6. I am interested in doing a TAship/writing a thesis although I’m not in my 
fourth year as yet.  
Answer: The current TAsh ip policy doesn't allow students (except 4th years) 
to become TAs.  
 
7. Who should I contact in case I have further questions?  
Answer: You can reach out to the Academic Representative of the 
Department.  
  
8. Is thesis mandatory for ASP students?  
Answer: Thesis is mandatory for an Advanced Major in Physics.  See also Q 9. 
                  22 
9. Do the ASP 4th year count as an Advanced Major?  
Answer: Yes. But only if the capstone project + thesis option is chosen. 
Otherwise,  the fourth year may be used to get a double major / minor in 
other subjects.  
 
10. Will the labs be independent of the theory courses - in terms of number of 
credits?  
Answer: Yes. They are independent of the theory courses in terms of the 
number of credits - 4 credits for each theory course or lab.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 