Department of 
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCESDepartment of 
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
BIOLOGY HANDBOOKTHE BIOL OGY PROGR AM AT ASHOKA UNIVERSITY 01
INTRODUCTION TO THE BIOL OGICAL SCIENCES PROGR AMME
AT ASHOKA UNIVERSITY 02
OVERVIEW OF UNDERGR ADUATE PROGR AM  03
OVERVIEW OF P D PROGR AM 04 h
ADVANCED DIPL OMA 05
THE F ACULTY 06-14
ACTIVITIES OF THE BIOL OGY DEP ARTMENT 15
ASHOKA BIO -SOC 16
RESEARCH F ACILITY 17-18
ELIGIBILITY & REQUIREMENT FOR DIFFERENT DEGREES 19
ETHICAL POLICY OF THE DEP ARTMENT 20
COURSE CA TALOGUE 20-24
DETAILS OF COURSES IN BIOL OGY 24-47
CTS COURSES 48-50
COURSES CROSS -LISTED FROM/WITH THE DEP ARTMENT 51
CROSS-LISTING POLICY 51
DEPARTMENT POLICY  51
HAPPENINGS 52
BIOLOGY HANDBOOK
THE BIOLOGY PROGR AM 
Ashok a is India's leading liberal arts resear ch university. The education at Ashok a emphasizes 
foundational knowledge, thorough academic resear ch based on rigor ous pedagogy , and hands-on 
experience with real-w orld challenges. 
Ashok a University envisions its Biological Science programme to be the corner stone of its Natural 
Sciences Programme. Built on the foundations of Chemistr y and Physics and drawing upon the 
resour ces of other disciplines such as Data Sciences, Climat e and Environmental Studies, and Social 
Sciences and Humanities, the Biological Science programme at Ashok a will seek unique directions in 
and catalyse the emergence of new areas of resear ch.
This handbook brings to you our philosophy of teaching and training in the diverse areas of life sciences, 
along with a list of current faculty and their research areas and accomplishments, details of teaching and 
research infrastructure, the and undergraduate and post-graduate curricula with syllabi. 
1INTRODUCTION TO THE BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES PROGR AMME 
Bioscience at Ashok a has adopt ed multi-dimensional appr oaches to study biology across various 
scales. These range from molecules to cells, tissues to individuals, and organisms to ecosyst ems. With 
a foundation laid in Chemistr y and Physics, this programme also involves under standing and learning 
from other disciplines such as Data Sciences, Climat e and Environmental Sciences, Social Sciences, 
and Humanities. Students and faculty at Ashok a are equal partners in this journe y. Our collectiv e aim is 
to generat e new knowledge and explore its applications to address social problems. 
While breadth across all scales of size and complexity in the life sciences is important for education and 
training in the undergraduat e and post-graduat e levels, we do give sufﬁcient attention to the depth that 
is needed for productiv e resear ch outcomes. In this direction, we have recently established The Trivedi 
School of Biosciences with the help of a gener ous donation from Mr. Ashok Trivedi. The school 
promotes advanced resear ch in Synthe tic Biology , Data Science, and emerging areas in disease 
biology . The school envisages state-of-the-ar t infrastructure, strengthening faculty number s in 
complementar y thematic areas, and continuous suppor t and ment orship in the pursuit of high-q uality 
resear ch capable of generating meaningful social impacts.
The strength of Ashok a lies in its highly qualiﬁed faculty across all disciplines. Our bioscience faculty 
come trained from all over the world and are some of the best in their respectiv e ﬁelds, with expertise in 
areas that are not represent ed in India. Our faculty also:
® Innovate in biology education.
® Carry out experimental, computational/mathematical/theore tical biology resear ch.
® Collaborat e with afﬁliat ed faculty from other disciplines such as physics, chemistr y, mathematics,
 and data science who work on biological problems; the afﬁliat ed faculty also contribut e to teaching
 the  students in the Biological Sciences programme.
2OVERVIEW OF UNDERGR ADUATE PROGR AM
Students of Ashok a start by querying the growth of human thought, the origin and growth of the human 
civilization in general, and the Indian civilization in particular . They are introduced to the origin of scientiﬁc 
inquiry and study the relationships and inter-dependencies between science and other domains of human 
creativity and critical thinking. On this foundation, the fundamental principles of physics are taught to all 
students, in a way that brings in both, the elegance of the principles of the natural world, and the complexity 
that still needs be unra veled. Subseq uently , students are introduced to the chemical, biological, and 
human w orlds, no t as independent disciplines, but as a continuum of the ph ysical w orld. Mathematics is 
taught as a language that connects all these disciplines of science and also as an abstract method by which 
we under stand our surroundings. 
Our model of education is concept-based and inq uiry-driven, as opposed t o the more traditional cont ent-
based models. Faculty at Ashok a pursue resear ch in those areas that are relat ed to the topics they teach to 
undergraduat e students. Our vision is to integrat e resear ch and teaching at all levels of science education. 
The Sciences at Ashok a will be rooted in experiments, but will not take the rigid “objectiv es, apparatus, 
method, and conclusion” form. Students learn through both, courses taught in the classr ooms, and by 
employing experimental methods in resear ch labs of the faculty . Students are also exposed to frontier s of 
science through seminar s, symposia, and national and international conferences that are routinely 
organized on the campus of Ashok a. 
The undergraduat e program in Biology is targe ted at students who have strong interests in Biology
(Biology Major s) as well as those who are interest ed in learning more about Biology or for meeting their 
scientiﬁc temperament needs (Biology Minor s). Cour ses are taught keeping in mind that some students 
may or may not have prior exposure to basic concepts of Biology . 
All students majoring in the Sciences will have an oppor tunity to learn how to design an experiment and to 
implement that design, ﬁguring out the art of the appr oximation, under standing the power of simple models 
and how to conceptualize them, and developing the ability to convert an idea into mathematical or 
computational forms. The contents of the courses themselv es are equivalent in every way to those that are 
taught at the best universities outside of and within India. The Sciences at Ashok a will be rooted in 
experiments, but these will not take the rigid “objectiv es, apparatus, method, conclusion” form. At Ashok a, 
students will transf er concepts learnt in class into experimental thinking, verifying for themselv es the power 
and generality of scientiﬁc principles.
Cour ses for Biology major s will provide a strong foundation for resear ch and career s in the biological 
sciences, medicine, pharmaceutical and biotech industr y, teaching, and other relat ed ﬁelds. A prospectiv e 
Biology major student is required to complete 11 core courses in Biology and 5 of the several optional 
courses offered in the Sciences along with the mandat ory 7 foundation courses. 
3OVERVIEW OF P .D. PROGR AM h
Ashok a University's Ph.D. program is designed to maintain global standar ds in education, training, 
productivity , and academic freedom. The Ph.D. program in Biological Sciences is charact erized by 
state-of-the-ar t laborat ories and computational infrastructure, gener ous suppor t to carryout ﬁeld work, 
accom plished faculty as resear ch ment ors, and gener ous scholar ship remunerations to all students. 
The unique liberal arts environment of the campus allows Ph.D. students to work on inter-disciplinar y 
resear ch projects drawing on the expertise of faculty member s within and beyond the biology 
depar tment.
The four broad thematic areas that charact erize our resear ch are:
1.  Bioph ysics and Biochemistr y
2.  Cell and Developmental Biology
3.  Com putational and Mathematical Biology
4.  Ecology and Evolutionar y Biology
All Ph.D. students under take complementar y course work to enable them to carry out resear ch in the 
areas of their interest. Ashok a gives maximum importance to training Ph.D. students in resear ch 
methodology , integrity , ethics, and written/oral communication. In addition, all Ph.D. students will have 
an oppor tunity to gain teaching experience by helping the faculty in teaching undergraduat e students. 
4ADVANCED DIPL OMA
The Biology Depar tment also offers a structured program for students who are interest ed in learning 
advanced concepts in biology and gain experience in some of the modern and interdisciplinar y areas of 
biology . This is in the form of an advanced diploma for students who have ﬁnished 3 years of 
undergraduat e in biology and relat ed area. The program is for one year. The major emphasis is to give 
oppor tunity to students to learn some of the advance and contemporar y topics in biology along with a 
hand-on experience in conducting research. Students with a major in a different disciple 
(chemistr y/ph ysics/maths/com puter science) are also eligible to join the Biology program. There is an 
oppor tunity to carry out interdisciplinar y resear ch in a number of areas in Biology . The program has 
been designed keeping in mind appr opriat e courses to ﬁll knowledge in gap areas and offer signiﬁcant 
resear ch oppor tunities
UG LABS WITH ST ATE-OF-ART FACILITIES
AND SAFETY FEA TURESSAFETY FEA TURES OUTSIDE LABS
UG LABS
5Alok Bhatt acharya is Professor of Biology . He is the recipient of Rober t McNamara 
Fellowship (World Bank), Rockefeller Biotechnology Career Development Award, Shanti 
Swarup Bhatnagar Prize and JC Bose F ellowship, and is a f ellow of Indian National Science 
Academ y and Indian A cadem y of Sciences. He also ser ved as one of the Vice Presidents of 
INSA . Following his Ph.D. at Jawaharlal Nehru University, India, he trained at the National 
Cancer Institut e and Harvard Medical School, USA. He spent a large part of his independent 
career at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, where his scientiﬁc interests were in the 
area of infectious diseases, biology of parasitic pathogens and genomics. He is credit ed with 
helping to set up one of the ﬁrst teaching and resear ch programs on Bioinf ormatics and Com putation Biology in 
India. His current resear ch interests are rare diseases, computational genomics and biology of pathogenic 
parasit es.
Cont act:  alok.bhattachar ya@ashok a.edu.in
Publications: 
® Pinotsis N, Zielinsk a K, Babuta M, Arolas JL, Kostan J, Khan MB, Schreiner C, Salmazo A, Ciccarelli L,
 Puchinger M, Gkougkoulia EA, Ribeiro EA Jr, Marlovits TC, Bhattacharya A, Djinovic-Carugo K.
 Calcium modulates the domain ﬂexibility and function of an α-actinin similar to the ancestral
 α-actinin. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2020 Sep 8;117(36):22 101-22 112.
® Awasthi K, Srivastava A, Bhattachar ya S., Bhatt acharya A. 2020. Tissue-speciﬁc expression of the
 sialic acid metabolic pathway: Role in GNE myopathy. J Muscle Res Cell Motil. 2020 Oct 7. doi:
 10.1007/s1 0974-020-09590-7
Shahid Jameel is Direct or, Trivedi School of Biosciences since October 2020. He is a recipient 
of the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize in Medical Sciences for his work on human viruses and is 
also an elect ed Fellow of all three science academies in India. He was also a Rockefeller 
Foundation Biotechnology Career Fellow and a Wellcome Trust International Senior Resear ch 
Fellow. Shahid obtained a Ph.D. in Biochemistr y at Washingt on State University, USA, and did 
postdoct oral work was in Virology at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Cent er, Denver, 
USA. In 1988 he set up the Virology Group at the International Centre for Gene tic Engineering 
and Biotechnology , New Delhi, India and led it for 25 years. His resear ch at ICGEB on human viruses – hepatitis E, 
HIV/AIDS and SARS – focused on virology , immunology and pathogenesis, and contribut ed to vaccine 
development. In 2013, Shahid was appoint ed Chief Executiv e Ofﬁcer of the DBT/W ellcome Trust India Alliance, a 
biomedical resear ch charity , which he led towards excellence in resear ch management, public engagement and 
science communication.THE F ACULTY
6Anup Padmanabhan  is Assistant Professor of Biology and an Intermediat e Fellow of the 
DBT/W ellcome Trust India Alliance. He did his PhD in Biological Sciences at the National 
University of Singapore, and was a Resear ch Fellow at the Mechanobiology Institut e, 
Singapore. His lab investigat es the dynamics of shape change in cells during physiological 
processes such as embr yo development and microbial infections. He employs various 
gene tic, cell biology tools as well live microscop y to study cytoskeleton regulation underlying 
these shape changes.
Cont act: anup.padmanabhan@ashok a.edu.in  
Recent Publications:
® Padmanabhan A, Ong HT, Zaidel-Bar R. (2017) Non-junctional E Cadherin Clusters Regulate
 the Actomyosin Cortex in the C.elegans Zygote . Current Biology .  27(1):1 03-1 12
® Desai S, Padmanabhan A, Harshe S, Zaidel-Bar R and Kenney L (2019) Salmonella bioﬁlms
 program innat e immunity for persistence in C. elegans. PNAS 116 (25) 12462-12 467
® Agarwal P, Ong HT, Toyama Y, Padmanabhan A, Dasgupta S, Krajnc M, and Zaidel-Bar R.
 (2018) Syncytial germline architecture is actively maintained by contraction of an internal
 actomyosin corset. Nature Communications 9, 4694. microscop y tools.
Bittu Kaveri Rajaraman  is Associat e Professor of Biology and Psychology , and is the current 
Head of the Psychology Depar tment. He receiv ed a PhD from Harvard University in 
neur oscience, and was then a DST-Kothari postdoct oral fellow at the Cent er for Ecological 
Sciences, Indian Institut e of Science, and an INSPIRE Faculty Fellow at the Central University 
of Hyderabad. He works on the evolution of neural and behavioural systems of 
communication, the neuroethology of temporal pattern recognition in insects, and 
quantitativ e and economic cognition more broadly in zebraﬁsh, dogs and humans. 
Cont act: bittu@ashok a.edu.in  
Publications:
® Rajaraman K., Godthi V., Pratap R. and Balakrishnan R. 2015. A novel multimodal duet in a paleo tropical
 bushcrick et. Journal of Experimental Biology 218: 3042-3050. Online ISSN: 1477-9145; Print ISSN: 0022
 0949. Impact Factor: 2.9 (2015), 5 year Impact Factor 3.2.
® Rajaraman K., Mhatre N., Jain M., Postles M., Balakrishnan R. and Rober t D. 2013. Low pass ﬁlters and
 differential tympanal tuning in a paleo tropical bushcrick et with an unusually low frequency call. Journal of
 Experimental Biology . 216: 777-78 7. Online ISSN: 1477-9145; Print ISSN: 0022-09 49. Impact Factor: 3
 (2013); 5 year Impact Factor 3.3. 
7Gaut am I. Menon  is Professor of Physics and Biology , and also an adjunct Professor at the Tata 
Institut e of Fundamental Resear ch, Mumbai. Prior to joiningAshok a University, he spent two 
decades as Professor with the Theore tical Physics and Com putational Biology groups at the 
Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, where he was the founding Dean of the 
Com putational Biology  group. He completed a Ph.D. from the Indian Institut e of Science, Bangalore 
followed by post-doct oral work at the TIFR, Mumbai and Simon Fraser University in Vancouv er. His 
interests span mathematical and computational modelling of chromatin, motor transport, 
cytoskeletal organization, and infectious diseases. He has been awarded the Swarnaja yanti Fellowship of the DST and 
the DAE-SR C Outstanding Resear cher Fellowship as well as been named an outstanding referee of the American 
Physical Socie ty. “He leads the BharatSim project at Ashok a, which is developing both a detailed agent-based model 
for disease spread as well as a high-q uality synthe tic population for India.  He is one of the developer s of INDSCI-SIM, a 
detailed epidemiological model for COVID-1 9 spread in India.”
Cont act:  gautam.menon@ashok a.edu.in
Recent Publications:
® Nandi S, Potunuru UR, Kumari C, Nathan AA, Gopal J, Menon G I, et al. (2020) Altered kinetics of
 circulating progenit or cells in cardiopulmonar y bypass (CPB) associat ed vasoplegic patients: A pilot study .
 PLoS ONE 15(11): e0242375. https://doi.org/1 0.1371/journal.pone.02 42375
®Shakti N Menon, P. Varuni and Gaut am I Menon Information Integration and Collectiv e Motility in Phototactic
 Cyanobact eria'PLoS Com p. Bio e1007807 (2020)
®Ankit Agrawal, Nirmalendu Ganai, Surajit Sengupta and Gautam I. Menon Non-equilibrium biophysical
 processes inﬂuence the large-scale architecture of the cell nucleus Bioph ys. J. 118(9), 2229-22 44 (2020)
Sudipt a Tung has joined Ashok a University as a Wellcome Trust-DBT India Alliance Early Career 
Fellow. He is broadly interest ed in investigating the ecological and evolutionar y dynamics at the 
organismal and sub-organismal level in spatially structured and unstructured populations. His 
resear ch utilizes both theore tical and experimental appr oaches. His current work involves 
under standing ecological and evolutionar y responses to diverse nutritional mismatches and their 
impacts on biomedical disor ders. Prior to joining Ashok a, he was working as a B4 postdoct oral 
fellow at Harvard University on dissecting out the gene tic basis of differential autodiploidization 
propensity in budding yeast, Sacchar omyces cerevisiae. He had completed my Ph.D. from Indian Institut e of Science 
Education and Resear ch (IISER)- Pune.
Cont act:  sudipta.tung@ashok a.edu.in
Recent Publications:
®Tung, S., Rajamani, M., Joshi, A., Dey, S. 2019. Com plex interaction of resour ce availability , life-hist ory and
 demograph y determines the dynamics and stability of stage-structured populations. Journal of Theore tical
 Biology 460. 1-12.
® Tung, S., Mishra, A., Gogna, N., Sadiq, M. A., Shreenidhi, P. M., Sruti, V. S., Dorai, K., Dey, S. 2018. Evolution of
 disper sal syndr ome and its corresponding metabolomics changes. Evolution 72, 1890-1 903.
8Imroze Khan  is Assistant Pr ofessor of Biology , a SERB Early Career F ellow and an 
Intermediat e Fellow of the DBT/W ellcome T rust India Alliance. He did his PhD fr om IISER 
Kolkata in Ev olutionar y Biology and w as a P ostdoct oral F ellow at National Centre f or 
Biological Sciences, Bangalore. His primar y academic int erest lies in under standing ho w 
organisms adaptiv ely e volve against/with inf ection and disease, combining div erse 
appr oaches ranging fr om e xperimental e volution and lif e hist ory analyses t o gene tics and 
genomics. 
Cont act:  imr oze.khan@ashok a.edu.in
Recent Publications:
® Khan I *, Prak ash A and A gashe D* (20 19). P athogen susceptibility and ﬁtness costs e xplain v ariation in
 immune priming acr oss natural populations of ﬂour bee tles. Journal of Animal Ecology . 88. 1 332-1 342 
®Khan I , Prak ash A , Issar S, U marani M, Sashidharan R, N Jagadeesh, Lama P , Venkatesan R & A gashe D*
 (2018). Female density -dependent chemical w arfare underlies ﬁtness ef fects of gr oup se x ratio in ﬂour
 beetles. The American Naturalis t. 191. 00-00. 
Kasturi P al is Assistant Pr ofessor of Biology . She did her PhD at the U niversity of Calif ornia 
at Riv erside, USA and postdoct oral w ork at the U niversity of T exas Southw estern Medical 
Cent er, Dallas and the Scripps R esear ch Institut e, La Jolla, USA . Dr. Pal's resear ch 
interests are dissecting the r oles of G-pr otein coupled recept or signaling in hemat opoie tic 
and car diovascular syst em, f or which she uses a v ariety of biochemical, cell and molecular 
biological appr oaches.
Cont act: kasturi.pal@ashok a.edu.in  
Recent Publications:
®Pal K, Nowak R, Billingt on N, Li R, Ghosh A , Seller s J, F owler V . (2020). Megak aryocyte migration def ects 
 due t o nonmuscle m yosin IIA mutations underly thr ombocyt openia in MYH9-R elated Disease. Blood .
 135(2 1):1887 1898 https://doi.org/1 0.1182/blood.20 1900306 4.
 * Co ver image of Blood [Ma y 21st, 2020] 
®Pal K, Hwang SH, Somatilak a B, Badgandi H, Jackson P, Defea K, Mukhopadh yay S. (2016). Smoo thened and
 β-arrestins cooperat e to determine steady state and sonic hedgehog mediat ed remo val of the G-protein
 coupled recept or Gpr1 61 from the primar y cilium. J Cell Biol. 212(7): 861-75. 
9L.S. Shashidhara  is Dean (Resear ch) and Professor of Biology at Ashok a University. He is 
President of the International Union of Biological Sciences (IUBS), the ﬁrst Indian in its 100 
years history and was elect ed as Associat e Member of the European Molecular Biology 
Organization (EMBO). He is a recipient of the CSIR Technology and Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar 
Prizes, a JC Bose National Resear ch Fellowship, and fellowships all the three Science 
Academies of India. Shashidhara receiv ed his Ph.D. from the University of Cambridge, UK and 
started his independent resear ch career at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology 
(CCMB), Hyderabad, following which he moved to IISER Pune at its inception and contribut ed to its growth. He 
specializes in Gene tics, Molecular Biology and Evolutionar y Biology , and identiﬁed key mechanisms that specify 
organ development and regulat e growth contr ol during embr yonic development. The scope has expanded to 
study evolutionarily conser ved mechanisms in human epithelial cancer s. He is involved in national efforts to 
under stand manif estation of cancer in Indian populations using multi-omics appr oaches.  
Cont act:s.shashidhara@ashok a.edu.in
Recent Publications:
®Ghose, A., Bhattachar ya, S., Karthikeyan, A.S., Kudale, A., Mont eiro, J.M., Joshi, A., Medigeshi, G., Kang, G.,
 Bal, V., Rath, S., Shashidhara, L.S., John, J., Chaudhuri, S. and Nagar kar, A. (2020). Community prevalence of
 antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 and correlat es of protectiv e immunity in ﬁve localities in an Indian metropolitan city.
 MedRxiv . doi: https://doi.org/1 0.1101/2020. 11.17.20228 155.
® Vaid, P., Puntambek ar, A., Banale, R., Reddy , R., Unde, R., Name war, N., Kelkar, DA., Shashidhara, LS.,
 Koppik er, CB. and Kulkarni, M (2020). Stromal Tumor Inﬁltrating Lymphocyt es (sTILs) as a putativ e prognostic
 marker to identify a responsiv e subse t of TNBC in an Indian Breast Cancer Cohor t. MedRxiv . doi:
 https://doi.org/1 0.1101/2020.08. 19.20 177865.
·Recent Publications:
® Chakladar M, Nair, MG., Prabhu, JS., Sridhar , TS., Kelkar, D., Kulkarni, M., Shashidhara, L.S. (2020). PTPN1 1
 / SHP2 negativ ely regulat es growth in breast epithelial cells: implications on tumorigenesis. BioRxiv . doi:
  https://doi.org/1 0.1101/2020.0 7.30.228 445.
® Nagarkar, S., Wasnik, R., Govada, P., Cohen, S.M. and Shashidhara, L.S. (2020). Promoter
 proximal pausing limits Yki-induced tumorous growth in Drosophila. Genetics. 216, 67-77.
 https://doi.org/1 0.1534/gene tics.120.3034 19.
® Groth, C., Vaid, P., Khatpe, A., Prashali, N., Ahiya, A., Andreje va, D., Chakladar , M., Nagar kar, S., Paul, R.,
 Kelkar, D., Eichenlaub, T., Herranz, H., Sridhar , T.S., Cohen, S.M., and Shashidhara, L.S. (2020) Genome-wide
 RNAi screen for context-dependent tumor suppressor s identiﬁed using in vivo models for neoplasia in
 Drosophila. G3: Genes,  Genomes , Genetics . 10, 2999-3008.https://doi.org/1 0.1534/g3. 120.40 1545.
® Kulkarni, A., Kelkar, D.A., Parikh, N., Shashidhara, L.S., Koppik er, C.B. and Kulkarni, M. (2020). Meta-analysis
 of prevalence of Triple-Negativ e breast cancer and its clinical features at incidence in Indian patients with
 breast cancer . JCO Global Oncolog y 2020 :6, 1052-1 062.  https://doi.org/1 0.1200/go.20.00054
10Shivani Krishna  is Assistant Professor of Biology . She did her PhD in ecology at IISER, 
Thiruv ananthapuram, and postdoct oral work was in insect ecology and beha viour at the 
University of Haifa, Israel. She uses multiple appr oaches combining tools from mathematics, 
physics and ethology to under stand the conseq uences of plant-animal interactions, structural 
features of habitats, vegetation richness and diversity in relation to pollination and herbiv ory 
patterns.
Cont act:  shivani.krishna@ashok a.edu.in
Recent Publications:
® Somanathan, H., Krishna, S ., Jos, E., Go wda,V ., Kelber , A., Borges,R.M. (2020) Nocturnal bees f eed on
 diurnal lef tovers and pa y the price of da y-night lif estyle transition. F rontier s in Ecology and Ev olution,
 doi:1 0.3389/f evo.2020.56696 4
® Krishna, S.  & Keasar T . (20 19) Bumblebees f orage on ﬂo wers of increasingly com plex mor phologies
 despit e low success. Animal Beha viour , 155, 1 19-130
Shubahsis Haldar  is Assistant Professor of Biology . He did his PhD from Indian Institut e of 
Chemical Biology , Kolkata and postdoct oral resear ch at Max Planck Institut e of Biochemistr y 
(German y) and University of California and Columbia University (USA).  His resear ch is in 
Bioph ysics with a keen interest in single molecule technologies. At Ashok a he established the 
ﬁrst covalent magne tic tweezer s in India, which have several applications in Physics, 
Chemistr y and Biology . 
Cont act: shubhasis.haldar@ashok a.edu.in  
Recent Publications:
® Haldar , S.*, Tapia-R ojo, R., Eckels, E.C., Valle-Orer o, J., & Fernandez, J.*, (2017) “Mechanical Folding by the
 Trigger Factor Chaper one” Nature Communication 8 (1): 668.
® Banerjee, S., Chakrabor ty, S., Sreepada,A ., Banerji, D., Goyal, S., Khurana, Y. and Haldar , S.*, (2020)
 “Cutting-edge single molecule technologies unveil new mechanics in cellular biochemistr y” Annual Reviews
 of Bioph ysics  (Just accept ed)
11Sougat a Roy is Assistant Professor of Biology . He did his PhD from the University of Montreal, 
and postdoct oral work in multidisciplinar y areas of resear ch as EIPOD (EMBL Interdisciplinar y) 
Fellow at the Sanger Institut e, EMBL and the Depar tment of Chemistr y, Cambridge University, 
UK. He uses unicellular phytoplankt on model systems to under stand the physiological 
relevance of circadian clocks. 
Cont act:  sougata.r oy@ashok a.edu.in
Our lab uses unicellular phytoplanktons to under stand
a. The circadian regulation of physiology (pho tosynthesis, oxygen evolution, bioluminescence etc.) and
 metabolism under stress,. 
b. The diversity in clock organization.
c. Circadian regulation of protein synthesis and posttranslational modiﬁcation
d. Under standing how the circadian systems can be modiﬁed to generat e clock engineered algal cells with
 enhanced metabolic abilities 
Publications
® CLICK -enabled analogues reveal pregnenolone interact omes in cancer and immune cells.  Sougat a Roy#,
® James Sipthor p, Bidesh Mahata, Jhuma Pramanik , MarcoL. Hennrich, Anne-Claude Gavin,  Steven V. Ley,
 Sarah A. Teichmann#. (under review).  biorxiv.org/sear ch/sougata%252Br oy  (# Corresponding author)
® Translation and translational control in dinoﬂagellat es. Sougat a Roy, Rosemar y Jagus and Da vid
 Morse.Micr oorganisms 6 (2). 30; doi:1 0.3390/micr oorganisms6020030.
Sudha Bhatt acharya is an Indian National Science Academ y (INSA) Senior Scientist in the 
Depar tment of Biology . She did her PhD from the Indian Agricultural Resear ch Institut e,
New Delhi, and postdoct oral resear ch at Stanf ord University, Bost on Biomedical Resear ch 
Institut e, and the National Institut es of Health, USA. She spent a large part of her 
independent career at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Her scientiﬁc interests are 
in gene organization and expression, rare gene tic disor ders and parasitic infection.
Cont act:sudha.bhattachar ya@ashok a.edu.in  
Recent Publications:
® Naiyer S, Kaur D, Ahamad J, Singh SS, Singh YP, Thak ur V, Bhattachar ya A, Bhatt acharya S. Transcript omic
 analysis reveals novel downstream regulat ory motifs and highly transcribed virulence factor genes of
 Entamoeba histolytica.BMC Genomics. 2019 Mar 12;20(1):206. 
® Singh SS, Naiyer S, Bharadw aj R, Kumar A, Singh YP, Ray AK, Subbarao N, Bhattachar ya A, Bhatt acharya S.
 Correction: Stress-induced nuclear deple tion of <i>Entamoeba histolytica</i> 3'-5' exoribonuclease EhRr p6
 and its role in growth and erythrophagocyt osis. J Biol Chem. 2018 Dec 14;293(50):1 9510.
1213Basudeb Maji  is an Assistant Pr ofessor of Biology at T rivedi School of Biosciences. He is also an 
Assistant Professor in the Depar tment of Chemistr y at Ashok a University. He receiv ed his Ph.D. 
from the Indian Institut e of Science, Bangalore and he was a Postdoct oral Fellow at Harvard 
Medical School and MIT. His resear ch group works on microbial CRISPR -based adaptiv e immunity , 
functional genomics, and synthe tic biology to address various gene tic and infectious diseases. He 
primarily uses protein engineering, chemogene tics, and chemical biology methods to under stand 
cellular physiology in the context of diseases for chemopre ventiv e development.
Cont act:  Basudeb.maji@ashok a.edu.in
Recent publications.
®  B Maji , SA Gangopadh yay, M Lee, M Shi, P Wu, R Heler , B Mok, D Lee, B Paul, V Dančík , MF Mesleh, A Vetere,
 LA Marrafﬁni, DR Liu, PA Clemons, BK Wagner and A Choudhar y. A high- throughput platf orm to identify small
 molecule inhibit ors of CRISPR -Cas9. Cell, 2019, 167, 1067- 1079. Highlight ed in more than 12 science
 media repor ts.
a a® B Maji, CL Moore, B Zetsche, SE Volz, F Zhang, MD Shoulders and A Choudhary. Multi-dimensional
a chemogenic control of CRISPR-Cas9. Nature Chemical Biology, 2017, 13, 9-11. Equal contribution.
 (Highlight ed by Nat. Chem. Biol. News & Views. doi: 10.1038/nchembio.22 43.)
a a a® M Lee , B Maji , D Manna , J Small, B Wagner , A Choudhar y. Nativ e zinc catalyzes selectiv e and traceless
 release of small molecules in β-cells. Journal of the American Chemical Socie ty, 2020, 142, 6477-6482.
a Equal contribution.
® D Manna, B Maji, S. Gangopadhyay, and A Choudhary. A singular system with precise dosing and
 spatio temporal contr ol of CRISPR -Cas9. Ange w. Chem. Int., 2019, 58, 6285-6289.
Rama Akondy  is an Associat e professor of Biology in the Trivedi school of Biosciences. She 
receiv ed her PhD from the National Institut e of Immunology (New Delhi, India) and worked at 
Emor y university (Atlanta, USA) ﬁrst as a post-doct oral resear cher and then as junior faculty . 
Immunological memor y, the ability of the immune system to 'remember' a previous encount er 
with a pathogen and respond to it better upon re-encount er, forms the basis of vaccination. 
Rama's primar y area of interest is under standing immunological memor y in humans by obser ving 
how our immune system reacts to viruses, vaccines and tumor s.
Recent Publications
®Akondy RS, Fitch M, Edupuganti S, Yang S, Kissick HT, Li KW, Youngblood BA, Abdelsamed HA, McGuire DJ, Cohen
 KW, Alexe G, Nagar S, McCausland MM, Gupta S, Tata P, Haining WN, McElrath MJ, Zhang D, Hu B, Greenleaf WJ,
 Goronzy JJ, Mulligan MJ, Heller stein M, Ahmed R. (2017). Origin and differentiation of human memor y CD8 T cells
 after vaccination. Nature. Dec 21;552(7 685):362-367 .
®McElr oy AK, Akondy RS, Mcllw ain DR, Chen H, Bjornson-Hooper Z, Mukherjee N, Mehta AK, Nolan G, Nichol ST,
 Spiropoulou CF . (2020). Immunologic timeline of Ebola virus disease and reco very in humans. JCI Insight. 2020
 May 21;5(1 0).
Balaji Chattopadh yay is an Assistant Professor of Biology at the Trivedi School of Biosciences. He 
completed his PhD from Madurai Kamaraj University and pursued postdoct oral resear ch at the 
Nation al Centre for Biological Sciences, India, and the Nation al University of Singapore, 
Singapore. Balaji's lab investigat es topical questions in biotic evolution, wildlif e conser vation and 
human health  falling within the One Health paradigm. His resear ch integrat es genomic, biological 
and environmental data to study the effect of climat e change on wildlif e and under stand its 
implication towards emerging zoono tic diseases. 
Cont act: balaji.chatt opadh yay@ashok a.edu.in
Recent Publications:
® Chattopadh yay B, Garg KM, Ray R, Mendenhall IH, Rheindt FE. 2020. Novel de novo genome of Cynopt erus
 brach yotis reveals evolutionarily abrupt shifts in gene family composition across fruit bats. Genome Biology and
 Evolution. evaa030, https://doi.org/1 0.1093/gbe/e vaa030
® Shingat e P, Ravi V, Prasad A, Tay BH, Garg KM, Chattopadh yay B, Yap LM, Rheindt FE, Venkatesh B. 2020.
 Chromosome-le vel assembly of the horseshoe crab genome provides evidence for three rounds of whole
 genome duplication. Nature Communications, 11:1–1 3.
® Chattopadh yay B, Garg KM, Mendenhall IH, Rheindt FE. 2019. Historic DNA reveals Anthr opocene threat to a
 tropical urban fruit bat. Current Biology , 29: R1269–R1 300.
®Chattopadh yay B, Garg KM, Ray R, Rheindt FE 2019. Fluctuating fortunes: genomes and habitat reconstructions
 reveal global climat e mediat ed changes in bats' gene tic diversity. Proceedings of Royal Socie ty B, 286,
 https://doi.org/1 0.1098/r spb.20 19.0304
14ACTIVITIES OF THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT
Seminar s, Workshops and Conf erences
The Depar tment of Biology has organised several seminar s, workshops, and conferences since its inception. 
These have attract ed audiences ranging from high school students to international and national policy makers. 
Some of the conferences and meetings held last year were: Muscle and Diseases; Recent Advances in 
Under standing Disease Biology; Seminar Series on Ecology and Evolution; and Gene tics and Evolution: 
Intertwined Strands. These have been signiﬁcant in forging collaborations and providing a platf orm for students 
and faculty to exchange scientiﬁc ideas.
Darwin-W allace Symposium
The Darwin-Wallace student symposium is held every year in the month of November/December to give 
undergraduat e students an oppor tunity to discuss and present their resear ch on diverse aspects of ecology and 
evolution, ranging from climat e change and biodiv ersity, to the evolution of antibio tic resistance and modelling 
disease spread. 
Biology Colloquium
During the academic year, we organise weekly colloq uia with international and national speak ers from different 
universities and specialisations within biology (on topics ranging from molecular gene tics to ecosyst ems 
ecology). We ensure that the list of invited speak ers reﬂect our inclusiv e outlook . Furthermore, we ensure that 
the majority of these talks reach beyond disciplinar y boundaries; this encourages students to pursue 
interdisciplinar y resear ch. These weekly colloq uia are followed by informal interaction sessions with the 
speak ers over pizza or a coffee. This tradition provides our students with an oppor tunity to ask questions relat ed 
to the speak ers' personal journe ys, resear ch traject ories, and the challenges that they have encount ered.  
15A MESSA GE FROM ASHOKA'S STUDENT -LED SOCIETY OF BIOLOGY, THE BIOSOC:
The Ashok a Biology Socie ty is a student-driv en initiativ e that brings together all aspects of the biological sciences 
to celebrat e them and make them more accessible to the student community . We are passionat e about different 
areas of biology and committ ed to sharing our interests to creat e a more robust biological discour se on campus. 
We belie ve that science and biology are for everybody , and strive to connect people within the community with 
each other. We welcome everyone – whether you are already adept or simply curious though yet-unacq uaint ed 
with biology – we aim to nurture a love for biology at every level.
There are several ways in which we encourage people to engage with biology – be it through excursions to 
ecological sites; our weekly bio-science talks and movie screenings; volunt eering with biodiv ersity surveys on 
campus; attending discussions on popular topics; or even writing for our editorial or social media platf orms. In 
addition, we encourage student suggestions, and are excited to hear new ways in which we can bring our love of 
biology to the Ashok a community and the world! 
We look forward to seeing you around!
16RESEARCH FACILITIES
Ashok a University has state-of-the-ar t resear ch facilities which suppor t experiments that may range from single-
molecule studies to organismal and ecological studies. Our undergraduat e laborat ories are fully equipped with 
advanced instrumentation and promote a unique open scientiﬁc culture. The facilities available to member s of 
Ashok a University's biology depar tment include:
1. Open Lab Facility
At Ashok a, there are no boundaries between individual labs, i.e., 
we have an 'open lab' culture. This promotes scientiﬁc and 
intellectual interactions by increasing the synergy among resear ch 
groups and opens up collaborative approaches to address 
biological questions. Our resear ch facility is fully equipped to help 
our undergraduat e students, PhDs, and faculty member s to take 
their studies and resear ch forward. Our open lab facilities make 
learning more experiential and enjoyable.
2. Insect Culture Facility
The insect facility is equipped with rearing 
and growth chambers, microscope 
stations for sorting and typing insects, 
piped CO2, plate anesthesia, dissection, 
and electr ophysiology rigs.
3. Fish Facility
The ﬁsh facility facilitat es work of resear chers who 
wish to utilize ﬁsh as a model organism for any kind of 
resear ch along with daily care of the animals and 
aquarium systems. Currently , this involves a large ﬁsh 
housing system with automated cleaning, 
temperature monitoring, and pH and salinity 
maint enance. The ﬁsh are maintained on a 14:10 
light: dark cycle and they are fed once daily from a 
culture of brine shrim p.
174. Plant Researc h Facility
Our plant resear ch facility has an environmentally 
controlled greenhouse (with fan and pad cooling 
system) and a shade house. The facility provides plant 
material required for undergraduat e experiments and 
resear ch with different plant and insect species grown 
under enclosed conditions. It also houses an algal 
growth chamber with programmable light intensity 
setup that can go as high as 330μmoles/m2/s.
5. Analytical Instrument ation Facility
This facility houses:
® Single-molecule covalent magnetic
 tweezers that can apply physiological
 forces on a single biomolecule
® A real-time PCR system (Proﬂex)
® Preparativ e instrumentation facility
® High-speed centrifuge
® FPLC system
® Plate reader (Cladiostar)
6. Ashoka Imaging Facility
Seeing is indeed belie ving! Recent advances in light 
microscop y have revolutionized our under standing of 
various sub-cellular biological phenomena at 
nanome ter resolutions. The Ashok a imaging facility 
suppor ts the depar tment's diverse microscop y needs 
through a variety of microscope systems. Currently , the 
facility houses the following instruments :
® Olym pus BX63 Upright epi-ﬂuorescence 
® FemtoJet Microinject or on an Olym pus IX53 inverter
 microscope 
® Leica Polarizing microscope (at the Soft Matt er Resear ch Lab, Physics Depar tment)
® Olym pus SZX1 6 stereo-zoom epiﬂuorescence microscope 
® Olym pus IX81 with W1 Spinning Disc confocal Microscope 
Additionally , the depar tment is also equipped with multiple dissection scopes for Drosophila and C. elegans 
manipulation.
 18ELIGIBILITY & REQUIREMENT FOR DIFFERENT DEGREES
Biology Major and Minor
Anyone can opt for a Biology Major or Minor degree independent of their past back ground. To pursue a Major in 
Biology at Ashok a, one must complete a total of 15 courses. This includes 7 core theor y courses (RC), 4 lab 
courses, and any 4 electiv es (ELE). Cour ses offered by the Depar tment of Biology , or cross-list ed with the 
Depar tment of Biology (even CTS; code BIO) can be count ed.
To pursue a Minor in Biology at Ashok a, one must complete 6 courses that are either offered by or cross-list ed 
with the Depar tment of Biology . This includes 4 RCs and 2 electiv es. Lab courses can count as electiv es but are 
not mandat ory.
Advanced Diploma in Biology (ASP)
There are two streams for joining the biology ASP programme. Those who have completed the requirement for 
the Biology Major with 92 credits can join ASP with Biology as a Major . In the second stream, those who have 
completed their Major in computer science/ph ysics/chemistr y/mathematics with 92 credits and want to pursue 
ASP with Biology as a Major can also be admitt ed in this programme.
Please note that the programme is recommended for those students who wish to pursue interdisciplinar y 
graduat e study in the subject. 
In order to obtain this degree, students must complete a minimum number of 32 credits (or what ever is 
prescribed) and a disser tation.
Ph.D. Programme
Anyone with an MSc or equivalent degree in any branch of science/engineering/medicine can join the PhD 
programme at the Depar tment of Biology . Admissions are through an entrance test and interview. The mode of 
these tests can change from time to time. Interest ed candidat es are requested to look for the announcements 
every year.
The requirements for successful completion of the programme and eligibility for a Ph.D. degree are:
® Com pletion of the course work with a grade point average of at least B+
® Successful participation as a teaching assistant in two courses
® Passing the comprehensiv e written examination with …..% of marks
® Clearing the oral qualifying examination
® Giving two depar tmental seminar s
® Publishing their thesis work as a resear ch paper in which they are the ﬁrst author 
® Submission of disser tation
® Acceptance of the thesis by examiner s and successful oral defence. 
The progress of the thesis is monit ored by an advisor y committ ee.
19ETHICAL POLICY OF THE DEPARTMENT
The Depar tment of Biology belie ves in creating a productiv e environment for everyone and all students are 
expect ed to adhere to the policies outlined in this section. These are in addition to the other rules that are 
applicable at the university level.
All work submitt ed for credit is expect ed to be the student's own work. In any situation where information deriv ed 
from published sources is directly used, it is the responsibility of the students to provide proper citations. 
Quotations must be properly placed within quotation marks and must be fully cited. In addition, all paraphrased 
material must be completely ackno wledged. Whene ver ideas or facts are deriv ed from another student's 
resear ch, sources must be indicat ed.
Resear ch results: Students are expect ed to recor d the results of all their resear ch honestly and accurat ely. 
Falsiﬁcation of resear ch results includes misrepresentations, distortions, or serious omissions of data or repor ts 
on resear ch and is considered a serious violation of academic honesty . In addition, all the students are expect ed 
to follow all the regulations in place in relation to use of recombinant DNA, animal experimentation, human 
experimentation, hazar dous material, and stem cells. In case of any questions please contact your teacher 
and/or head of the depar tment.
COURSE CA TALOGUE
This is a compiled list of courses of different categories that have been offered by the faculty of the Depar tment 
of Biology in the past. This does not guarant ee a yearly repe tition. Foundation courses canno t be count ed 
towards a major or minor . CTS (maximum 1) can be count ed as an electiv e for Major s only.
Foundation Cour ses (FCs)
1. Principles of Science
2. Environmental Studies 
Critical Thinking Seminar s
1. Survival Strat egies
2. Diversity of Life
List of A bbre viations used here
FC -Foundation Course
RC - Required Course
ELE -Electiv e Course
20Please not e,
In , are the R C laborat ory cour ses. In , are the R C theor y cour ses.in , are the ELE theor y cour ses f or blue red green
major s and minor s.COURSES OFFERED BY THE DEPARTMENT
For New Cour se (2nd Semes ter): Each student should regist er for all 11 core courses (7 Introduction to Biology courses and 
4 lab courses) and a minimum of 4 electiv es. 
For Old Cour se: Each student should regist er for all 11 core courses (7 Introduction to Biology courses and 4 lab courses) 
and a minimum of 4 electiv es. 
21 Semes ter  Core cour ses  Electiv e Core cour ses  Electiv es
   (Old)  (Old)  (New) (New)
nd      2 semes ter
     onwards
st 1 semes ter 
 (August -No v)  Fcs  Fcs
 (Monsoon)
 2 Semes ternd  Basic genetics  Introduction  Survival  Survival
     (Spring) Strategies Strategies to Biology 1 
   
  Genetics 
        Biology and Ev olution  
    Practical 1:  
     Exploring lif e in Laborator y Cour se 1:  
    the neighbour hood  Life in the
      neighbourhood  
rd 3 Semes ter    Introduction to Chemical basis
     Cell and Molecular of lif e 
       2: Biology Introduction to Biology
    Chemical basis of lif e Cell Biology
       Introduction to Biology 3:
     Molecular Genetics
      and Molecular Biology
     Biology practical 2  Laborator y Cour se 2:
     Molecular Biology
     and Bioc hemis try
     (Gene tics and Ev olution
     is a pre-req uisite) 22 Semes ter  Core cour ses  Electiv e Core cour ses  Electiv es
   (Old)  (Old)  (New) (New)
nd     2 semes ter
     onwards
 
th 4 Semes ter   Evolutionar y biology Ecology  Advanced Molecular  Microbiology  
    Introductor y Physiology (Spring)   biology  and Biot echnology
   : Biology practical 3  Laborator y Cour se 3  Introduction to
      Neuroscience Cell Biology
        and Genetics
   Ecology  Bioph ysics  Bios tatistics and  Development al 
th 5 semes ter   Microbiology and s tructural biology  Bioinf ormatics  Biology 
      (Gene tics and (Monsoon)
      Evolution will be
      the pre-req uisite)
   Biology Practical 4  Laborator y Cour se 4:  
    Ecology and Ev olution Statistics and Under standing
    Bioinf ormatics (Gene tics and Ev olution Structure and 
    
   is a pre-req uisite)  Function  
   Bios tatistics 
     and Introduction to Mathematical and   
    Bioinf ormatics Neuroscience Comput ational Biology 
      (Introduction t o
      computer)
     Advanced Cell  programming is 
     Biology recommended)
      
     Plant Biology  Animal Ph ysiology
     (Developmental  /Biology 
     Biology is a  (introduct ory 
     pre-req uisite) physiology
       is a pre-req uisite)
     Physiology Immunology
    Applied Microbiology23 Semes ter  Core cour ses  Electiv e Core cour ses  Electiv es
   (Old)  (Old)  (New) (New)
nd     2 semes ter
     onwards
 
th  semes ter 6    Immunology  Evolutionar y Cognition
 ( )  Spring    (introduction
      neur oscience is a 
    Development Biology 
      Force and Motion
     Advanced  in Biology
     Neuroscience   
      Evolutionar y Genetics 
      (Gene tics and Ev olution
        Evolutionar y is the prereq uisite)                
    Cognition 
     (Pre-req uisite:  Ecological and
     introduction t o  Epidemiological
       Neur oscience  dynamics 
      Advanced
      Comput ational  Neuroscience
      and Mathematical (introduction
     Biology neur oscience is a
      pre-req uisite)
      Plant Biology
      (Developmental
      Biology is a
      pre-req uisite)
   
     Advanced  Disease Biology
     Bioc hemis try (immunology is
      a pre-req uisite) Semes ter  Core cour ses  Electiv e Core cour ses  Electiv es
   (Old)  (Old)  (New) (New)
nd     2 semes ter
     onwards
 
th 7 semes ter     Genomics, prot eomics
     and NGS (BIO 4206)
     Speciﬁcity in gene  Any one 4 credit
     expression and cell  cour se within
     signalling  or outside the
     (BIO 4226/6230) Depar tment
     Biology R esearc h I   
             (BIO 4606) 
     
      th8 semes ter Researc h Methodology Timing in Biology
     and Ethics (BIO-4028)
      (BIO 6603/4209) 
      Ecological and
      epidemiological
     Biology R esearc h II  dynamics (BIO 4026)
     (BIO460 7) Or
      Any one 4 credit
      optional cour se
      offered in
      6th semes ter
      or outside the
      Depar tment
      
 
        
24IMPOR TANT:
a. For a minor , any 4 out of 7 R C's are mandat ory
b. In addition t o the 4 R C's, a minor must com plete 2 ELE cour ses.
c. For a major , all lab cour ses and R C theor y cour ses are com pulsor y.
In addition t o the 4 labs and 7 R C's, major s must com plete 4 ELE cour ses within 3 y ears. For minor s the 
requirement is 4 R Cs and 2 ELEs.
DETAILS OF COURSES IN BIOLOGY
(BIO-1 002) Exploring life in the Neighbor hood Lab 4 credits
(Prereq uisite: None)
Introduction: The goal of this course is to introduce students to their local ecosyst em and biological world by 
involving both ﬁeldw ork and lab work. The course will also have open ended exercises, wherein students will be 
encouraged to come up with small questions and seek answ ers by experimentation. 
Cour se details: 
® Our neighbor hood: Diversity around us: e.g. Birds of Ashok a
® Spot and track: How do they beha ve? (focal follow)
® Aligning with ants
® See the unseen I: Plankt onic world diversity
® See the unseen II: Microbes around us 
® Hypo thesis testing and introduction to basic statistics
® Conﬂict in nature: Sex and conﬂict, battle of sexes
® Prey and predat or interactions
® In the time of health and sickness: Infection and disease 
® Organisms and environment: plants and their habitat adaptations
® Organisms and their chemical pursuits: Chemical world of our tiny neighbor s:
® Group projects and presentations
25(BIO-22 12) Cell and Molecular Biology Lab 4 credits
(Prereq uisites- Gene tics Theor y, regist ered in Cell and Molecular Biology Theor y)
Introduction: 'The laborat ory classes are designed to provide the students with hands-on-e xperience of some 
common molecular biology t echniq ues. The laborat ory learnings will com plement some of the concepts studied 
during the theor y course to have a comprehensiv e knowledge. However, it is an independent course in itself and is 
designed not only to under stand the basic mechanism of biological processes but also will be beneﬁcial to 
appreciat e the use of biotechnological tools and techniq ues in academic resear ch and industrial applications.'
Cour se details: 
®Introduction and buf fer preparation.
 This class will intr oduce the preparation of buf fers that mimic cellular en vironment.
®Bact erial gr owth cur ve 
 This session will allo w students t o under stand the gr owth dynamics of sim ple organisms such as bact eria.
®Extracellular DNA isolation and its estimation and Charact erization
 Bact eria can harbour e xtracellular DNA in the f orm of Plasmids and these can be used t o clone genes of
 foreign origin. W e will learn ho w we can isolat e the Plasmid fr om the bact erial cells.
®DNA am pliﬁcation in cell free syst em
 This is a kind of synthe tic biology appr oach t o am plify DNA in vitr o. We will learn the de tails of this
 mechanism that is popularly kno wn as P olymerase chain reaction. 
®Cloning the am pliﬁed gene
 We will learn ho w to clone the PCR am pliﬁed gene int o a v ector.
®Transf ormation of f oreign gene tic mat erial int o bact eria
 Bact eria can uptak e foreign DNA and this is f acilitat ed by treating the bact eria t o mak e it com petent. W e will
 learn the basics of ho w we can mak e bact erial cells com petent and transf orm f oreign DNA int o these cells.
®Expressing, purifying and charact erizing the pr otein fr om bact eria
 Here the students will learn ho w to do he terologous e xpression of pr oteins in bact eria and ho w to purify and
 charact erize it.
26(BIO-2202) Genetics Lab 4 credits
(Prereq uisite - Gene tics Theor y)
Introduction: The laborat ory practical classes are designed to provide the students with hands-on-e xperience of 
some basic as w ell as sophisticat ed techniq ues relat ed to gene tics. W e will star t with the practical analysis of 
bacterial gene tics, to be followed by classical Mendelian gene tics and then move on to screen and analyze 
mutants. We will be mainly concentrating on three widely used model organisms, E. coli, S. pombe and C. 
elegans. 
Cour se details: 
® Mendel's La ws, Brief Hist orical per spectiv e - the gar den pea e xperiment; Gene tic
 Model Syst ems – Bact eria, Fission, C. elegans
® Meiosis - Se t up mating - S. pombe sporulation on YPD plat es -Haploid organisms;
 mono h ybrid cr oss; Discuss dih ybrid cr oss / punne t square Isolat e spores and carr y out Random spore
 analysis - Dilut e and Plat e Discuss t etrad dissection
®Replica plate into selective media; Discuss crosses in Diploid organism -demonstrate C. elegans;
 Homozy gous / heterozygous.
® Mutants - Alleles - Geno types and Pheno types - isolat e spores and plate them on YES plate - Linkage,
 epistasis; dominance; recessiv e alleles - their segregation
® Gene tic Screens –      Forward gene tic screen – students may try a UV mutagenesis screen using ﬁssion yeast
 and hunt for temperature sensitiv e mutants. – Reverse gene tic screen - RNAi screens – Discussion only –
 explain the rationale and methodology of genome wide screens.
® Introduction t o C. elegans Gene tics - Stages of De velopment; students ge t hands
 on experience with manipulating C. elegans
®Manipulating C. elegans - continue to practice- identify stages, males and hermaphr odites. Discuss
® RNAi – Students will use C. elegans to learn RNAi by feeding methods; Proper contr ols – efﬁciency of RNAi;
 quantiﬁcation. (Students to follow up the next day to check and quantify the results).T echniq ues to Visualize
 cells and sub-cellular contents
® Genome editing techniq ues - Recombination in S. pombe and Crispr -Cas9 in C.elegans - demonstration &
 discussion Blue white screening via E. coli transf ormation
27(BIO-30 12)  Ecology and Evolution Lab   4 credits  
(Prereq uisite: Evolutionar y biology)
Introduction: Students will be introduced to quantitativ e methods of resear ch in ecology and evolution including 
experimental design, data collection, analysis, interpretation and scientiﬁc writing using ﬁeld and laborat ory 
studies. They will work with plant and animal models from local ecosyst ems to empirically test concepts in 
population growth, competition, resour ce utilization, foraging beha viour , communication, ecological parame ters 
on bacterial growth (e.g. pH & temperature). The course aims at giving an experience of concepts and methods 
discussed in theor y courses of ecology and evolutionar y biology . Towards the end of this course, students will be 
able to design and implement appr opriat e methods for sampling individuals, populations and communities and 
ask questions on their diversity, stability and productivity . Modules dealing with beha vioral experiments will also 
demonstrat e potential errors that arise due to obser ver bias, signiﬁcance of blinded methods and other potential 
ways to improve the reliability of the data collect ed.
Cour se details: 
Patterns of morphological variation using geome tric morphome tric analysisModels of spatial distribution: a test 
using disper sion of leaf gallsT esting the optimal foraging theor y: ﬂowers as resour ces and pollinat ors as 
forager sResour ce co-limitation in plantsP ersonalities (intra-individual variation) in group living spider s: prey 
capture dynamicsIsland biogeograph y and species richnessMicr obial evolution under stressSe xual Selection 
and mate harmIndependent resear ch projects and poster presentations
(BIO-1 200) Basics of Genetics Theor y 4 credits
(No Prereq uisite)
Introduction:
How an organism's structure and function is regulat ed? The answ er to this question lies within the inherit ed DNA. 
Gene tics have evolved phenomenally since Mendel ﬁrst introduced the concept of genes during the mid-1 800s. 
Today gene tics is used in all phases of life from food to medicines, new disco veries tend to manipulat e gene tics 
not only to diagnose and ﬁnd better cure for deadly diseases like cancer but also to design smar t plants and 
microbes to enhance the quality and quantity of food and secondar y metabolit es such as biofuel. Hence a 
thorough knowledge of gene tics is an absolut e requirement for biologists to comprehend the complex living 
organisms. 
This course will help you to acquire a thorough knowledge about the principles and concept of gene tics. We will 
start with the seminal disco veries chr onologically that led t o our under standing of gene tics t oday. Speciﬁcally , 
you will learn in details about inheritance of the gene tic materials and traits, structure and function of 
chromosomes and genes, mapping genes on the chromosome. We will then move on to study the key areas of 
gene tic variation and molecular gene tics and focus on model organisms used for gene tic studies. Subseq uently 
we will learn about the inheritance of complex traits and population gene tics. 
28Cour se Details:
®Disco very of the basic principles of inheritance. ®Mendelian Inheritance
® Chromosomal basis of mendelism ®Sex-link ed inheritance ®Linkage and mapping
® Extension to Mendelian gene tics ®Cellular reproduction
® Extra chromosomal inheritance ®Chromosomal variation and its implications
® Mendelian principles applied to human gene tics ®Gene tics of bacteria and virus
® Proper ties of the gene tic materials ®Model organisms to study gene tics ®Molecular gene tics
® Introduction to Quantitativ e gene tics: Inheritance of complex traits
(BIO-22 10/BIO-62 10)  Intro to Cell and Molecular Biology Theor y  4 credits
(Prereq uisite - Gene tics Theor y)
Introduction: Cell is the fundamental unit of life. It carries out all (well… almost all!) the physiological processes 
essential for its survival and propagation. Within the cell, each of these processes is accom plished by molecular -
machines. What are these processes and how do these mini machines carry out the cellular functions? How do 
these cellular machines know the right place and the right time to carry out appropriate functions? 
In this introduct ory Cell and Molecular Biology course, we will start by exploring some of the essential processes 
at the cellular level and under stand how the relevant molecular machines manage to carry out these processes 
with such amazing ﬁdelity and efﬁciency . The primar y focus of this course will be on eukaryotic cells, but as and 
when needed we will draw comparisons with prokaryotic cellular processes to appreciat e their similarities and 
distinctness.  By the end of this course, the participant is expect ed to have a good conceptual grasp on basic 
cellular mechanisms, the molecular machineries involved, and their functional regulation within a cell.
Cour se details: 
® Introduction to Cellular Organization and Processes ®Organization of Gene tic material in the cell
® Replication – Prokaryotes & Eukaryotes ®Transcription  – Prokaryotes & Eukaryotes
® Translation – Prokaryotes & Eukaryotes ®ER, Golgi and Plasma Membrane – Protein Modiﬁcation and
 Transpor t
® Protein Quality Contr ol ®Cytoskeleton – Structure and Dynamics ® Cellular Tracks and Force Generating
 Motors
® Endocyt osis and Exocytosis ®Movement – Cellular motility ®Cell Division – Prokaryotes & Eukaryotes
® Cell Adhesion – Cell-Matrix and Cell-Cell Adhesions ®Cell Death ®Epithelial-Mesench ymal Transitions (EMT)
® Cancer s and Tumor s ®Cellular aspects of Metazoan Development
29(BIO-20 10/BIO-60 10) Ev olutionar y Biology Theor y 4 credits
(No Prereq uisite)
Introduction: This is a basic evolution course designed speciﬁcally for undergraduat es and PhD students without 
any prior training in evolutionar y biology , where the primar y goal is to encourage the evolutionar y thinking among 
students. I will start with very basic concepts and then slowly pace up to more advanced topics. During the course, I 
will primarily emphasize on two major aspects – (1) How do biologists infer the processes that contribut e to 
evolution? (2) Why is the under standing of evolutionar y patterns and processes critical for diverse areas of 
biological resear ch? In addition, I will also brieﬂy discuss (1) how do we read the primar y scientiﬁc literature? (2) 
How do we write about science? At the end of this course, I hope that the students will develop a broad 
under standing of the k ey concepts and theories in e volutionar y biology , including principles of natural selection 
and variation, sexual selection, population gene tics, quantitativ e gene tics, speciation and biodiv ersity, molecular 
evolution, co-evolution, and life history evolution. Finally and most importantly , I do not expect all the students to 
become professional evolutionar y biologists – but whether they become astrobiologist, athle tes, bureaucrats, 
entrepreneur s, movie stars or medical practitioner s, I hope that if they ever think about biology , they will be 
capable of appreciating the lens of evolutionar y processes.
Cour se details: 
® The History of Evolutionar y Thought  ®Evidence for Evolution; Origin of life 
® The theor y of natural selection  ®Random Events in Population Gene tics
® Natural selection and random drift in molecular evolution  ®Two- and multi-locus population gene tics
® Quantitativ e gene tics  ®Adaptiv e evolution  ® Evolution of sex ®Sexual selection ®Evolution of eusociality
® Evolutionar y theor y of aging  ®Mechanisms of Speciation  ®Phylogen y
® Evolutionar y patterns and processes: Classiﬁcation and evolution  ®Evolutionar y Biogeograph y
® Life-hist ory evolution  ® Coevolution  ®History of life; Extinction and radiation
® Evolution of genes and genomes  ®Evolutionar y medicine; Antibio tic resistance  ®Reading materials
(BIO-2300/6300) Chemical Basis of Life 4 credits
(No Prereq uisite)
Introduction: The course aims at introducing basic concepts of chemistr y in biology and provides a frame work to 
under stand basic biomolecular interactions and their mechanism. It will emphasis on studying amino acids, 
proteins, enzymes as biological catalysts and under standing the chemistr y of enzymatic transf ormations. This 
course constitutes topics that cover lipids, carbohydrate, sugar, molecular metabolism, and membrane 
biochemistr y.
30Cour se details:
® Introduction of Cellular Chemistr y / Chemistr y of Life  ®Carboh ydrat e Chemistr y  ® Lipid and Fatty acids
® Amino acids and Proteins ® Protein structure  ®Protein folding and chaper one
® Enzymology part 1: Introduction  ®Enzymology part 2: Thermodynamic principles 
® Enzymology part 3: Enzyme kinetics  ®Vitamins and cofactors 
® Biological membranes 1 (types and structure of lipids, phospholipids) ®Biological membranes 2 (ﬂuid
 mosaic model)
® Transpor t of Proteins through membrane  ® Glycolysis, TCA cycle, Glyconeogenesis and glycogenolysis
® Amino acid and Fatty acid metabolism  ®Nucleo tide Biosynthesis ®Protein expression and puriﬁcation
(BIO-3020/BIO-6020)  Ecology  4 credits
(No prereq uisites, but completion of Evolutionar y biology is strongly recommended) 
Introduction: The course will cover a range of topics from individuals to ecosyst ems with an emphasis on 
theore tical foundations and recent developments in the ﬁeld. We will begin with how ecological under standing is 
achie ved, how conditions and resour ces inﬂuence individual species and then move to processes at higher 
levels of organization and end with rethinking some of the big questions in ecology . The topics covered will 
incluse physiological ecology , population ecology , species interactions, community ecology , succession and 
disturbance; ecosyst em ecology , and biogeochemistr y. Topics introduced in the lectures will be followed by in 
class-activities (and simulations) and discussions. For discussion sessions, I will suggest classic and recent 
resear ch paper s and students will lead discussions based on those. The course will allow to reﬂect on 
uncertainty and variation in natural processes from individual behaviour to ecosystem services. It is 
recommended strongly to take evolutionar y biology course prior to this, since this course will build on some of 
the modules covered in that course. 
Towards the end of this course, students will be able to (a) under stand how ecologists empirically study 
processes occurring at various scales and apply evolutionar y thinking to these processes (b) integrat e proximat e 
and ultimat e factors to under stand natural processes (c) quantitativ ely synthesize ecological resear ch (d) 
explore applications of ecological concepts such as conser vation, landscape management. 
Cour se details:
®Introduction to ecology and evolutionar y backdr op
® Conditions: life at extreme conditions, adaptations, temperature-size rules
® Resour ces: plant and animal resour ces, ecological niches, ecogeographical rules 
31Cour se details:
® Lifecycles: Birth, death and growth, disper sal and migration, intraspeciﬁc competition, 
® Population dynamics: Density -dependence, growth models, metapopulations and patch dynamics
® Interspeciﬁc competition: mechanisms, experiments and models; niche partitioning, exploitation, allelopath y
® Species interactions: Predat or-prey interactions, herbiv ory, foraging and game theor y, arms race
® Mutualisms and antagonisms: Pollination, seed disper sal, symbiosis, parasitism, decom position
® Beha viour ecology of species interactions: Economics of decision making, resour ce defense and learning  
® Community structure in time and space: Successional mechanisms, patterns and gradients of species
 richness, disturbance, spatial heterogeneity , Island Biogeograph y
® Ecosyst ems ecology: Primar y productivity , decom position, ﬂow of energy and matt er through ecosyst ems,
 biogeochemical cycles
(BIO-350 1/650 1)  Bios tatistics and Bioinf ormatics  4 credits
(No Prereq uisite)
Introduction: This course is application orient ed with a focus on under standing and making use of data in 
biology. The systematic acquisition of data made possible by advances in genomics and proteomics 
technologies has creat ed a gap between the available data and its analysis leading to insights from the data. In 
addition, the data from multiple sources can be used to generat e hypothesis and answ er important questions. 
Com putational and theore tical appr oaches to under standing biological systems are an essential step in closing 
this gap. Since statistics plays an important role in data analysis lectures on relevant topics of statistics are part 
of the course. 
Cour se details:
Statistics
® Introduction: Basic probability , random variables, expectation, variance
® Data distribution: Random v ariables and distribution
® Statistical inf erence & Sam pling: P opulation and sam ples, Central limit theorem, t distribution
® Hypo thesis t esting: T ype I and T ype II err or and po wer, conﬁdence int ervals, 
® Multiple h ypothesis t esting: F alse disco very rate, family wise err or rat e
® Hypo thesis t esting in practice: Hypo thesis t ests f or cat egorical v ariables (chi-sq uare, Fisher's e xact)
® Bootstrap simulation, permutation t ests
32Bioinf ormatics
® Biological data and databases
® Biological data mining
® Nucleic acid and pr otein seq uence analysis
® Concept of anno tation
® Sequence alignment
® Finding remo te homologs and mo tifs
® Protein and RNA structure analysis 
® Next generation seq uencing and principles of NGS data analysis.
® Principles of ph ylogene tic analysis
(BIO-3423/6 423)  Ph ysiology  4 credits
(Prereq uisite: Biochemistr y, Cell & Molecular Biology)
Introduction: The overall learning objectiv e of this course will be to under stand the concepts regulating 
tissue/organ functions necessar y for achie ving homeostasis in living organisms. The students will learn how 
basic concepts in cell biology , biochemistr y and bioph ysics work in conjunction to regulat e organ functions. The 
topics will cover nerve-muscle physiology , sense organs, cardiac cycle, blood coagulation, digestion, excretion of 
nitrogenous waste, integumentar y system. The topics covered in this course include:
®Introduction to Human Body
® Bone and skeleton system
® Integumentar y system
® Neur ons and nerve impulse conduction
® Blood and circulation
® Hear t
® Lymphatic system
® Digestion and metabolism
® Endocrine system and reproduction
® Urinar y system
33(BIO-34 13/6413)  Applied Microbiology  4 credits
(Prereq uisite: Gene tics Theor y)
Introduction: In this introduct ory microbiology course we will start by exploring the general concepts of 
microbiology and the diverse microbial lifestyle on earth. We will discuss various aspects of microbial diversity 
such in – their cellular architecture, genome organization, cellular processes, form and lifestyle. In the second 
half of the course we will examine our own 'love-hat e' relationship with the microbes and deliberat e why certain 
microbes became successful in causing diseases but not others, and how we have engineered microbes to drive 
our food and biotechnology industr y.
Course det ails:
® Introduction t o Micr obial ph ysiology & d iversity ®Cellular ar chitecture of pr okaryotic micr obes
® Cellular ar chitecture of Viruses ®Cellular ar chitecture of Euk aryotic micr obes
® Microbial gene tics ®Gene regulation in micr obes ®Microbial Cell Biology
® The Human micr obiome ® Social Int eractions in micr obes ®Microbes as pathogens
® Studying micr obial pathogenesis  ®Contr ol of micr oorganisms ® Anti-micr obials®Medical Micr obiology
®Basic F ood Micr obiology ® Biotechnology/Industrial micr obiology ®Waste-water micr obiology
(BIO-3433/6 433)  De velopment al Biology  4 credits
(Prereq uisite: Biochemistr y, Gene tics, Cell & Molecular Biology)
Introduction: The Cour se will follow Animal development (invertebrat es and vertebrat es) from the egg to the 
embr yo to certain speciﬁc tissues/organs. Basic concepts of developmental biology as also principles and 
mechanisms that help form and shape the organism will be taught and discussed.
®Introduction t o positional inf ormation, ax es, coor dinat es and mor phogen gradients
® Commonly used Experimental me thods in de velopmental biology
® Generation and Int erpretation of gradient inf ormation and P attern f ormation 
® Physics and Mathematics of mor phogen gradients and their int erpretation
® Modes of cell-cell int eractions during tissue organization: Self-organization, lat eral inhibition, induction,
 and recruitment
®Growth and dif ferentiation ®Evolution of body plan  ®Stem cell biology and tissue repair 
® Literature (paper s, reviews, lectures) will be made available online and throughout the course recent
 papers in the area of developmental biology will be read to update the class on recent
 resear ch disco veries. While Plant development is taught in a separat e course, some comparison will be
 discussed here.
34(BIO-3304/6304)  Adv anced Bioc hemis try  4 credits
(Prereq uisite: Biochemistr y, Cell & Molecular Biology)
Introduction: In this course, we will learn how biochemical principles regulat e a variety of physiologically relevant 
cellular phenomenon like transpor t across biological membranes, endocyt osis and exocytosis. This course also 
aims to under stand how biochemical pathw ays process complex macr omolecules like carboh ydrat es, lipids, 
proteins and nucleo tides to maintain energy requirements in physiological systems. 
Cour se details: 
®Com position and architecture of membranes. Membrane dynamics, membrane biogenesis
® Types of membrane transpor t (osmosis, diffusion, facilitat ed diffusion, activ e transpor t)
® Role of membrane lipids and proteins in cell signaling (Tyrosine kinase and GPCR signaling)
® Endocyt osis (lysosomal degradation of endocyt osed proteins) and exocytosis
® Bioenerge tics
® Glycolysis, TCA cycle, gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis
® Beta oxidation of fatty acids, ketone bodies 
® Urea cycle
® Cholest erol biosynthesis 
® Oxidativ e phosphor ylation and electr on transpor t chain in mitochondria (details of mitochondria structure)
® Biosynthesis and degradation of nucleo tides
® Vitamins and co factors.
® Pathw ays, Metabolic network and regulation of metabolism 
(BIO-34 43/6 443)  Immunology  4 credits
(Prereq uisite - Cellular and Molecular Biology)
Introduction: This course will introduce students to molecules, cells and organs that shape invertebrat e and 
vertebrat e immune system. Students will learn about the structural features of components of the immune 
system and mechanisms involved in its development and function. Subseq uently , we will discuss evolutionar y 
pathw ays and constraints that have led to the development of functional innat e and adaptiv e immunity . We will 
trace the conser ved and unique features of the immune response across species and adaptiv e changes in 
pathogens that ha ve shaped the e volution of the immune syst em. T ogether, this cour se will pr ovide im portant 
insights into the development and function of immune system, integrating emerging concepts from classical 
immunology and evolutionar y biology to under stand how organisms resist or endure infections and diseases.
35Cour se details: 
® Introduction: Rise of immunological thoughts
® Concepts of immunity  from Natural history examples of host-pathogen interactions
® The immune frame work; evolution, ecology and organisation of immune tissues the need for immunity , innat e
 and adaptiv e immunity , pathogen niches and effector responses, organisation of immune components 
® Target recognition strategies in the immune system; innate, adaptive and MHC repertoires
 targe t identiﬁcation, non-clonal and clonal recept ors, self/non-self-discrimination, contexts of signals, contr ol
 of immune context of antigenic targe ts
® MHC structure-function, polymor phisms, classes, presentation pathw ays 
® Developmental rules in the immune system; innate versus adaptive immune cell differentiation,
 embr yogenesis and immune development, sites and lineages, checkpoints and signals, proliferation and
 differentiation balances, unique charact eristics of lymphocyt e differentiation programmes 
® Evolutionar y processes underlying immune responses I: Natural selection and immunity
® Evolutionar y processes underlying immune responses II: Sexual selection and immunity
® Evolutionar y constraints, physiological regulat ory networks, and integrat ors underlying immune responses
® Resour ce-based trade-of fs with immune responses: Energe tics of immunity
® T cell immune responses TCRs and their signaling, proliferation and differentiation, effector and memor y
 response balances, regulation of commitment to distinct cytokine groups in T cell responses, CD8 T cell
 response contr ol, regulat ory T cells
® B cell immune responses structures and functions of antibody/BCR molecules, BCR-mediat ed signalling,
 accessor y signals, germinal centres, isotype class switching, somatic hyper mutation, differentiation of
 memor y B cells versus plasma cells
® Immunity in heath and disease Ideas of 'health' and 'disease', immunity to infections, integration of innat e
 and adaptiv e components in regulating immune responses to infections, mucosal immunity , non-inf ection
 targe ted immune inﬂammation, autoimmunity and allergy 
® Conser ved and unique features of the immune response across species and populations 
® Immune mechanisms as a function of rapidly evolving pathogens: perspectiv e within- and across-populations
® Molecular evolution and immune pathw ays: Integrating proximat e and ultimat e mechanisms 
® Evolutionar y gene tics of immunity and implications for infectious disease
® Microbiome, hormones and immune system regulation
36(BIO-2 103/BIO-6 103) Introduction to Neuroscience 4 credits
 (No Prereq uisite)
Introduction: The goal of this class is to enable students to under stand how a biological system mostly composed 
of salty proteinaceous water bounded by fat is able to signal information, perform complex computations and 
produce beha viour . We will start by under standing how single neur ons can perform computations and can be 
under stand in the same frame work as electr onic circuitr y. We will under stand then how complex information 
processing and calculation can happen as a result of the ways in which multiple neur ons signal to and connect to 
one another. We will then look at how the brain is organized, and study the nervous systems of humans and other 
animals, appr oaching this through the lens of the various tools that neur oscientists have historically used to 
study neur onal connectivity and the brain. We will cover the electrical proper ties of nerve cells and voltage 
dependent membrane permeability; channels, transpor ters, neur otransmitt ers and their recept ors; synaptic 
transmission; the brain and its development and plasticity . We will also study complex brain functions and the 
neural basis of complex cognition, learning and information processing. We explore the ways in which the 
neur onal processes underlying beha viour have been deduced from various animal models of beha viour , and 
ways in which gene tics and the environment shape the systems that produce beha viour during development. We 
will explore sensor y perception and motor movement. We then turn to the question of how we learn, how we 
absorb new material, at the neural basis of complex and interesting phenomena such as motivation, emotion, 
cognition, consciousness, attention. We will end with an exploration of how neural systems can exhibit 
pathology , how neur odegeneration and trauma can impact the system, and how medication and drugs work. 
This course eventually hopes to make clear the relationship between brain and beha viour .
Cour se details:
® What is a neur on? ® How do neur ons function?  ®How do neur ons process information?
® What is a neural circuit? ®How do neur ons communicat e? ®Synapses, medications and drugs
® What is in a human brain? ® What is in the human spinal cord? ®Experimental neur oscience
® Gene tics and neural development ® Trauma, neur odegeneration ® Neural regeneration and repair
® Animal beha viour ® Human and animal brains ®Sensor y perception and movement
® Learning and memor y ®Motivation, reward and learning ® Nature and Nurture
® Emotion and “rationality”,  ®Communication, language ®Decision making ®Attention and sleep
® Consciousness! ®Mood, depression, anxie ty ®Schizophrenia, Parkinsons and Alzheimer s 
37(BIO-3 114/BIO-6 114)  Adv anced topics in Neuroscience  4 credits
(Prereq uisites - Intr oduction t o Neur oscience)
Introduction: The goal of this class is for students to explore various topics in neur oscience that give one a sense 
of the possible frame work of computation through electrical signaling by wet, messy , living systems. The 
introduction t o neur oscience cour se should ha ve already giv en you all a sense of ho w single neur ons per form 
basic computations of addition and subtraction and how elementar y circuits might perform more complicat ed 
computations. We will explore how these multi neur on circuits work in this course not through textbook material 
or conventional teaching, but rather through reading primar y scientiﬁc material, which you should already be 
familiar with.In this class, we will put together a series of topics in neur oscience for further study . A rough set of 
topics is provided below, but we can explore really any other system that people are interest ed in. In every week, 
one class will involve teaching, and the other will involve discussion and presentations. In the second class, 
students take turns contributing to the collectiv e under standing of the ﬁeld by presenting individually select ed 
readings, based on your own interest.  Then we will collectiv ely discuss advances in each ﬁeld, relying on looking 
up fresh primar y resear ch paper s together.
Cour se details:
®The simplest circuit: the retina ®Receptiv e ﬁelds in the eye  ®Feature detection in the retina and advanced
 visual circuits
® Auditory circuits ® Evo-devo-neur o: comb jellies and cniderians
® Operant conditioning and learning  ®Appe titive conditioning versus fear conditioning: a review of circuitr y
®Auditory localization in owls and bats: delay lines and coincidence detectors
®Magne tic sensation in p igeons/ants 
®Electrical sensation in electric ﬁsh ®Interoceptiv e awareness  ®Attention/ Decision making 
®Binocular rivalry and consciousness experiments in humans  ®Echolocation and grid cells in bats
®Place cells in rats and monk eys  ®Bonding and attachment, in mice, voles ®Mirror neur on circuitr y
®Predat or avoidance and predation ®Group beha viour and sociality
® Depriv ed vs enriched environments
® Song and pattern generation in zebraﬁnches and crick ets 
® Pattern generation in walking
® Circadian rhythms, synchr ony 
®Navigation circuitr y  ®Population coding
38(BIO-3 104/6 104)  Ev olutionar y Cognition  4 credits
(Prereq uisites - Intr oduction t o Neur oscience)
Introduction: The goal of this course is to delve into the complicat ed question of how cognition has been shaped 
by Evolution. This question has been addressed by various disciplines, including the ﬁelds of “Evolutionar y 
Psychology”, “Sociobiology” and “Physical Anthopology”. The common problem with the construction of the 
frame work of these ﬁelds is the chain of untested assum ptions underlying it, and the development of ideas 
unmoored to the physiological basis of either evolution or cognition. We will break down each model used to 
teach Evolutionar y Psychology to critically examine each system, and each system feeds into a larger 
under standing of what is involved in the evolution of cognitiv e abilities. This course looks at the question of 
whether there are aspects of beha viour and cognition that do and do not seem to have evolved in particular 
evolutionar y contexts. The ﬁrst step in our critical examination is to under stand what evolution does and does not 
mean in a Darwinian frame work; as well as whether and how cognition can be deﬁned and accurat ely assessed. 
We look at what aspects of beha viour are hardwired, and what is plastic. We under stand that evolution pertains 
to gene tic changes, and get a quick under standing of what gene tics constitut es. We then learn about 
epigenetics, gene expression, how the framework of genes and their expression drives physiological 
development of an embr yo, how the brain develops as a subse t of the body from a gene tic frame work, and about 
the relativ e ridigity and plasticity of parts of the brain during development and in adulthood. We then visit various 
questions in evolutionar y cognition, focussing on the historical debat es between the people who began 
extending the frame work of e volution t o under stand beha viour and cognition. The learning goals f or this class 
are to primarily learn how to distinguish an evidence-based under standing of evolutionar y cognition from what 
have been called “just-so” stories, which clog the public and even scientiﬁc realm. 
Cour se details: 
® What is evolution, what is cognition, how do these relat e to each other? 
® What evidence do we have for evolution? ®How does gene tics relat e to evolution? 
® What are epigene tics and development and how do they mediat e between gene tics and beha viour?
® The evolution of humans, and language, the notion of a module. 
® How does linguistics relat e to the assessment of cognition?
® Nature and Nurture in cognition ®Ants and humans: Socio-biology and its troubled past.
® Evolutionar y Cognition and its history of racism ®Gender and cognition: Spelk e/Pink er debat e 
® Cooperation and conﬂict among kin and non-kin ®Kin selection and Inclusiv e ﬁtness theor y
® Sexual selection ®Cheat er detection, altruism and mirror neur ons
® Further conser ved modules in evolutionar y cognition
39(BIO-33 13/63 13) Bioph ysics and Structural Biology 4 credits
(Prereq uisite: For biology students Biochemistr y is the Prereq uisite, for others knowledge of basic cellular 
biology is necessar y, such as under standing of DNA, RNA, and protein)
Introduction: This course will emphasize on the role of physics or physical principles on biology . This will not only 
focus on biological phenomenon (like protein diffusion, ligand-recept or binding), but also provide hands on 
experience on high end resear ch technologies such as covalent magne tic tweezer s or ﬂuorescence correlation 
spectr oscop y. It will also train students on respectiv e data analysis. 
Cour se details:
® Introduction of Biomolecules [Proteins, Carboh ydrat e, lipids, Nucleic acids] 
® Bioph ysics of water and salt
® Electr ochemistr y (common ion effect, Ostw ald's dilution law, Dielectric Constant)
® Protein diffusion, ligand-recept or binding and crowding effects
® Cytoskeleton: Actin and microtubules
® Motor proteins ®Protein degradation pathw ays ®Mechanical transduction  ®Cell adhesion and migration
® Basic bioph ysical technologies (UV-Vis, Circular Dichr oism, Fluorescence Spectr oscop y)
® Hands on experience on magne tic tweezer s and data analysis ®Hands on experience on single molecule
 FCS to determine size and aggregation propensity of proteins
(BIO-3233) Advanced Cell Biology  4 credits
(Prereq uisite: Biochemistr y, Cell & Molecular Biology)
Intoduction: This course will focus on molecular regulation of cell physiology such as intracellular trafﬁcking, 
nuclear transpor t, cell cycle, dynamics of cell cytoskeleton (actin, tubulin and intermediat e ﬁlaments), cell 
migration, extracellular matrix and cell adhesion and signaling from intracellular compartments. We will cover 
the following topics:
® Cytoskeleton and molecular motors ® Nuclear trafﬁcking  ®Cell Cycle
® Extracellular matrix and Cell adhesion  ®Cell migration  ®Signal transduction  ®Cancer biology
® Apopt osis and autophagy ®Organelle communication  ®Techniq ues in cell biology
40(BIO-3223/42 16/6223)  Adv anced Molecular Biology  4 credits
(Prereq uisite Gene tics and Intr oduction t o Cell and Molecular Biology)
Introduction: This course will provide basic as well as advanced under standing of the concepts and tools that are 
used in molecular biology . Advanced molecular biology course will start with the basic details and exception of 
the central dogma of biology . Then we will discuss how to evaluat e and design key cutting-edge resear ch in the 
ﬁeld of molecular biology . 
Cour se details:
® Introduction to central dogma  ®DNA replication errors and repair  ®Recombination and transposition
® Chromatin structure and epigene tics  ®Transcription  ®Translation
® Regulation of gene expression (including post transcriptional gene silencing)
®rDNA tools and techniq ues (REs, Vectors, hosts and cloning)
® Construction of DNA and cDNA libraries and screening them
® Blotting techniq ues (southern, northern and western)
® Introduction to NGS 
®Genomics, Transcript omics and Proteomics
BIO-XXXX)  Molecular Genetics and Molecular biology  4 credits
(Prereq uisite Gene tics and e volution)
Introduction: How an organism's structure and function is regulat ed? The answ er to this question lies within the 
inherit ed DNA. Gene tics have evolved phenomenally since Mendel ﬁrst introduced the concept of genes during 
the mid-1 800s. Today gene tics is used in all phases of life from food to medicines, new disco veries tend to 
manipulat e gene tics not only to diagnose and ﬁnd better cure for deadly diseases like cancer but also to design 
smar t plants and microbes to enhance the quality and quantity of food and secondar y metabolit es such as 
biofuel. Hence a thorough knowledge of gene tics is an absolut e requirement for biologists to comprehend the 
complex living organisms. 
Speciﬁcally , you will learn in details structure and function of chromosomes and genes, mapping genes on the 
chromosome. We will then move on to study the key areas of gene tic variation and molecular gene tics and focus 
on model organisms used for gene tic studies. Subseq uently we will learn about the inheritance of complex traits 
and population gene tics. This course will provide basic as well as advanced under standing of the concepts and 
tools that are used in molecular gene tics and molecular biology . Then we will discuss how to evaluat e and design 
key cutting-edge resear ch in the ﬁeld of molecular biology . 
41Cour se details:
®  ®  ®  Genes and chromosomes  Sex-link ed inheritance Linkage and mapping
®  ®  ®  Gene tics of bacteria and virus Proper ties of the gene tic materials Chromatin structure and epigene tics 
®   ®  ®  Introduction to central dogma DNA replication Transcription and its regulation
®   ®  ®  Translation Recombination and transposition rDNA tools and techniques (REs, Vectors, hosts and cloning)
® Construction of DNA and cDNA libraries and screening them
(BIO-4028)  Timing in Biology  2 c redits
(Prerequisite: Genetics and Evolution and Introductory Physiology)
Introduction: Living organisms adapt to the surrounding environment by coordinating different biological tasks 
with the 24 h rotation of the earth with the help of a cell-based clock , termed as the circadian clock . Circadian 
clock generat es self-sustaining endogenous r hythms in ph ysiology , beha viour and me tabolism that ha ve wide 
implications in eukaryotes and prokaryotes. This course will give a brief overview of how circadian clocks 
generat e temporal rhythms.  
Cour se details:
® Biological rhythms and its examples
® Circadian rhythms and its charact eristics
® Phase response curves
® The Gene tics and Molecular Biology of Circadian Clocks
® The Circadian Systems of Cells
(BIO-4206) Genomics and NextGen Sequencing 2 credits
Intoduction: Under standing structure, expression and dynamics of a genome allows us to correlat e structure 
with function and help to ﬁnd molecular correlat es of different pheno typic charact eristics. Recent developments 
of high throughput technologies have opened unprecedent ed level of dissecting a genome that has opened up 
new ways of deciphering geno type-pheno type correlation. We will expose the students to these new ways of 
under standing genomes and show how the genomic data can be used to under stand functional features.
42Cour se Details:
® Deﬁnition and introduction to high through-put appr oaches to biology
® DNA sequencing technologies
® Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) and d technology platf orms
® Strat egies for sequencing entire genomes
® Genome assembly and anno tation
®Application of genomics 1: Single nucleo tide variation, Copy number variation, Disease susceptibility and
 diagnosis
® What is proteomics and basic methods?
® Large scale proteomics analysis, use of mass spectr ometers
(BIO-4226)  Speciﬁcity in gene e xpression and cell signaling  2credits
(Prereq uisites: Cell and molecular biology and biochemistr y)
Introduction: Cell signaling or signal transduction pathw ays are fundamental mechanisms used across biological 
systems to effectiv ely relay information within extracellular and intracellular milieu. Under standing such cellular 
information processing strat egies have led to the disco very of numer ous drugs which are used for pharmacological 
perturbation of deleterious pathw ays in multiple diseases. This course will provide students a broad perspectiv e on 
how cell signaling mechanisms signiﬁcantly affect physiology and pathoph ysiology .  
Learning outcome: In this course the students will learn how components of signaling pathw ays (recept ors, ligands, 
channel proteins and second messenger s) regulat e physiological functions and phenomenon like host-pathogen 
interaction, innat e and adaptiv e immunity and embr yonic development. The overall goal will be to appreciat e the 
vast diversity in signaling mechanisms and crosstalk between different pathw ays.
Cour se Details:
1. Introduction to Biological signaling 
2. Signaling tool box and methods for deciphering signaling pathw ays
3. Second messenger s, calcium, cAMP and lipids 4.Ca2+ and its involvement in cytoskeletal dynamics and 
exocytosis
5. Signaling in neur ons and cardiovascular system  6.Signaling in embr yonic development
7. Cell signaling in innat e and adaptiv e immune systems  8.Cancer signaling
9. Host-pathogen interaction  10. Quorum sensing, two component system and communication in bacteria
11. Endoplasmic stress response and unfolded protein response
43(BIO-3453/6 453)  Plant Biology  4 credits
(Prereq uisite - Intr oduction t o Cell and Molecular Biology)
Introduction: The human socie ty is absolut ely dependent on the plant community , whether it is oxygen, food or 
medicines. This course will give the students a basic as well as in-depth knowledge of plant biology . We will learn 
about the details of its anat omy, development, biochemistr y, stress, metabolism, physiology and breeding. We 
will also under stand how the modern gene tic, molecular biology and genome editing tools have helped to 
generat e better plants.
Prereq uisite: The following courses are required for registration.
® Gene tics” theor y and practical 
® Cell and molecular biology” theor y and practical
® Microbiology” theor y 
®Biochemistr y” theor y
® Physiology” theor y
Cour se details:
® ® ®®  Ancest or of plants Plant cells (anat omy of plants) Plant nutrition Transpor t in plants (water and nutrients)
® ® ®  Photosynthesis in C3 and C4 plants  Plant respiration  Genomes of model plants 
® ® Plant secondar y metabolit es and defense  Plant growth and development 
® ® ®  Light contr ol and response in plants  Plant hormones  Flowering and its contr ol in plants
® ®® Plant stress and abscisic acid  Plant breeding  Plant molecular biology and biotechnology
(BIO-66 14) Graduat e Seminar Cour se in Biological Sciences 4 credits
Introduction: Communication is key in science. The primar y objectiv e of this course is to help graduat e students 
learn to review, critiq ue and discuss scientiﬁc literature. This module is designed to help Ph.D. students improve 
their presentation skills in their individual resear ch topics as well as subjects beyond their primar y expertise. In 
this era of multi-disciplinar y resear ch, this skill will be extremely valuable. 
Cour se Details:
This module is designed as one in recent resear ch paper s (or manuscripts) in life sciences are allotted to 
students. The students then present a seminar on this paper including suitable literature search and critical 
analysis. The resear ch paper will be further discussed with their fellow graduat e students and lecturer s. This 
seminar style appr oach is very conduciv e to spreading new information and getting graduat e students aware of 
and interest ed in other associat ed disciplines. The seminar s given by students are open to UG students and 
other faculty member s.
4444Planned W eekly Sc hedule 
Week 1 Cour se Brieﬁng and w arm-up
Week 2 Manuscripts – R eading and R eview
Week 3 Critique manuscripts - W riting
Week 4 Present ation – Building Cont ent & Deliv ery
Week 5 Ecology & Ev olution - In Class paper present ation 
Week 6 Cell & De velopment al Biology - In Class paper present ation
Week 7 Bioc hemis try & Bioph ysics- In Class paper present ation
Week 8 Disease Biology and P athogenesis - In Class paper present ation
Week 9 Ecology & Ev olution - In Class paper present ation
Week 1 0 Cell & De velopment al Biology - In Class paper present ation
Week 1 1 Bioc hemis try & Bioph ysics - In Class paper present ation
Week 1 2 Disease Biology and P athogenesis - In Class paper present ation
Week 1 3 Cour se Debrief and R eview
 (BIO-4606)  Biology researc h-1     2 credits
(BIO-460 7)   Biology researc h-2    2 credits
Introduction: The 4th year biology program (ASP) has a mandat ory resear ch component both in the 7th and 8th 
semest er. Overall, the students are expect ed to learn to carry out back ground search in their chosen area, 
design a scientiﬁc problem, plan and execute experiments and analyse the data. The students will learn 
different ethical principles applied to resear ch and carry out their work in a safe manner . It is expect ed that this 
course will prepare a student for future advanced studies in any area of biology
FOUND ATION COURSES
Fc0305   FC cour se on Principle of Science   4 credits
Intoduction: The course narrat es some of the key theore tical and technical developments in the evolution of the 
sciences. It offers a synoptic view of the history of science and technology till the Cold War – though there is 
great er emphasis on the modern sciences. While the evolution of scientiﬁc ideas will be discussed, the place of 
`science in history' will receiv e equal emphasis. The canvas of the course is present ed below. But a couple of 
social themes that have an impact on science will be introduced as the course proceeds. For example, a class or 
two will be dedicat ed on the questions of impact of colonialism, gender and race.
45Cour se Details:
® The Nature of Science
 What is science? Science as an institution. The methods of science. The cumulativ e tradition of science.
 Science as a means of production. Science as curiosity and as a source of ideas. The interaction of science
 and socie ty. 
® ® ®  Early and Medie val Sciences  The separation of the sciences.  The sensation of temperature.
® ® ®  The four elements.  The obser vation of the heavens.  The building of theories.
® ®  The circulation of knowledge in the ancient and medieval worlds.  The fortuitous conjuncture –
 mathematics, alchem y and optics.
® ® ®  The ﬁrst scientiﬁc revolution  The First Phase: the renaissance.  The Agricultural Revolution.
® ®®  The Revolution in astronom y.  Navigation.  The Copernican Revolution.
The Scientiﬁc Revolution- the second phase: The ﬁrst bourgeois revolution.  Galileo Galilei
The Foundation of Dynamics. Scientiﬁc socie ties. The dynamics and justiﬁcation of the Solar System. Celestial 
mechanics and the Newtonian system. The phenomena of the prism. The velocity of light. Newton's rings. 
Diffraction. Biological diversity and cataloguing life, Introduction to Linnaean system
The New Philosoph y -The third phase: Science comes of age. Capitalism and the birth of modern science.
Antecedents and conseq uences of the industrial revolution
Science and the revolutions.
®  ®  The French revolution and its effects on science. The charact er of science in the industrial revolution.
®  ®  The eight eenth and nineteenth centur y advances of science. The vacuum pum p.
®  ®  ®  The spring of the air.The separat e condenser .The locomo tive. Heat and energy .
®  ®  Engineering and metallurgy .Science in the late Nine teenth centur y. Electricity and magne tism.
® Microscop y and disco very of cells, cell theor y, and div ersity in cell structure and function while maintaining
 common features
® Science in the twentie th centur y
® From Classical to Modern Physics: The New Physics: Waves, rays and radioactivity . Quantum Theor y: Einst ein
 and Bohr . General Relativity . The Standar d Model. Physicists as Librarians. Woes and Wonder s in 1900.
 Science as a Profession. Uses of New Physics.
® The new sciences of Life. Nature of living organisms, how life was formed and existence of life in other
 plane tary system. Concept about chemical basis of life will be introduced. Under standing inheritance and
 birth of gene tics, Mendel and his experiments, disco very of DNA and Molecular basis of gene tics
® A discussion on biodiv ersity and possible loss due to climat e change.
46FC: Ecology & Environment  4 credits  
Introduction: This course introduces students to the ﬁeld of Environmental Studies. It is designed to provide an 
under standing of several critical issues of our times such as climat e change, pollution of our environment, 
threats to biodiv ersity, water, food, and energy security , ecological justice, amongst others.
Students are introduced to the origin and evolution of plane t Earth and how humans are altering the natural 
environment. Speciﬁc modules include ecology and ecosyst em studies; history of our changing environment; 
biodiv ersity and conser vation; climat e change: its causes and impacts; environmental pollution; ecological 
justice; and socio-economic-legal aspects of the environment.
The cour se will familiarise students with these themes through lectures, readings from key works in 
Environmental Studies, and ﬁlm screenings. Additionally students will perform several hands-on activities such 
as assessing changes to India's environment using satellite data, documenting local biodiv ersity, and using 
climat e change models.
The course will be deliv ered through classr oom lectures and discussions, ﬁlm screenings, discussion of key 
readings, project-based learning activities and in-class and home work assignments.
Cour se Details:
® Origin and Evolution of the Earth. How and when did the Earth and the solar system form? What was early
 Earth like? How did it evolve over 4.56 billion years? How did it become habitable?
® A Brief History of Geologic Time Geologic time and major evolutionar y events.
® The Human Age. Human Evolution. How environmental change inﬂuenced evolution.
® Ecosyst ems and Ecology . Introduction to ecological studies. A brief introduction to the ecological history of
 India including the environment during ancient, medie val, and colonial times.
® Biodiv ersity and Conser vation. Biodiv ersity Hotspots, Threats to biodiv ersity, Biodiv ersity conser vation.
® Climat e Change. The science of Climat e Change. Societal impacts of climat e change. Policies and
 governance. Impacts of climat e change in India.
® Our Changing Environment. Pollution in our environment. Air, Water, Soil, and Environmental Pollution. Rachel
 Carson's The Silent Spring, the Bhopal gas leak; Chernob yl, Uranium mining in Jadugoda.
® Mapping Environmental Change. Our changing environment. Mapping urban expansion, deforestation,
 changes in land use and land cover, natural and manmade disast ers.
® Social Issues and the Environment. Sustainable development. Environmental Ethics. Consumerism and the
 environment.
® Environmental Law. Laws and Acts of India. The Environment Protection Act, Air (Prevention and Contr ol of
 Pollution) Act, Water (Prevention and contr ol of Pollution) Act, Wildlif e Protection Act, Forest Conser vation Act.
® Environmental Justice / Ecology and Equity
Looking Ahead. What is the future of our plane t in the “Anthr opocene”?
47TimelineCTS COURSES
CT 1083 Critical Thinking Seminar Cour se Survival Strategies 4 credits
Introduction: One way of under standing life is to identify and under stand strat egies that living organisms use in 
order to survive in nature, particularly when there are biotic and abiotic changes in the environment. Organisms 
use different strat egies depending upon their nature as well as the environment. These strat egies evolve 
towards better adaptation and help in the perpetuation of life. In this course, we will study the strat egies used by 
different types of organisms and try to correlat e these with evolution. 
Student evaluation will be based on class participation, a resear ch paper , and mid-semest er and ﬁnal 
examinations.
Cour se Details:
® Survival and Evolution: General principles
® Survival strat egies
· Microbes  ·Parasit es: unicellular and multicellular ·Insects  ·Flies ·Plants  ·Animals
·Survival strat egies in extreme environment  ·Deser t  ·High altitude  ·Deep ocean
® Conclusion
Field methods in ecology and conser vation science  4 credits
Introduction: The goal of this course is to introduce students to ﬁeld methods in ecology and conser vation 
science by involving both ecological ﬁeldw ork and lab work and social science resear ch methods. The course will 
also have open ended exercises, wherein students will be encouraged to come up with small questions and seek 
answ ers by experimentation.
Cour se Details:
  Orientation/Intr oduction Hypo thesis t esting, sam pling     
  to ﬁeld ecology and conser vation designs and a shor t ﬁeld trip
 Week 1   Appr oach: Conser vation pr oblems,
   deﬁning the pr oblems, me thods t o
   quantify and solutions
48Timeline
 
Week 2 Fragmentation & loss of Theor y: Proper ty, Common  
  species  div ersity (Social) proper ty, Natural R esour ce Go vernance
    Methods: Intr oduction t o interviews and
   surveys
Week 3 Invasive species (Social) Theor y: Managing Multi-use Landscapes
   Methods: Intr oduction t o using par ticipat ory
   GIS
   
Week 4 Plastic P ollution Theor y: Beha vioral change, N udge Theor y
   Methods: Randomized contr olled trials
Week 5 Hunting/Fishing/Illegal Theor y: Illegal use of pr otected
  wildlif e trade  areas Par ticipant obser vations 
  
Week 6 Fragmentation & loss of  Theor y: Island biogeograph y
  species div ersity Metapopulations, Single large or se veral 
  (Marine/T errestrial)  small
   Methods and analysis (using bee tles and
   ﬂies as models) :Insect species div ersity
   using sticky traps,   pitfall traps, sw eep net
   sampling, wind direction measurements;
   diversity indices, raref action, species
   abundance models
Week 7 Invasive species Theor y: Ecological im pacts of in vasive
  (Marine/T errestrial)   species on nativ e species. Me thods and
   analysis (using plants as models): Quadrat
   sampling of in vasive plants and nativ e plants,
   point q uarter me thod; transects, soil q uality
   measurements
Week 8  Pollution (Air/W ater/Land) / Theor y: Effects of pesticides and insecticides
  Pesticides and insecticides Methods and analysis (using bees as models):
   pan traps, visual obser vations (counts on
   ﬂowering plants), Aspirat or sam pling, light
   intensity and humidity measurements
  
49Timeline
  Hunting/Fishing/Illegal Theor y: Im pacts of o verﬁshing and illegal
  wildlif e trade (or) Climat e  harvesting
Week 9  change/greenhouse   Methods and analysis(using ﬁsh/aq uatic
  emissions species as models): 
   Sam pling aq uatic species (ﬁshing ne ts), w ater
   turbidity , salinity and pH measurements
Week 1 0 Independent w ork Identifying and pr oposing a chosen
   conser vation pr oblem t o work for tw o weeks: 
   questions, h ypothesis and me thods
   
Week 1 1 Independent w ork Ecological and social science appr oach t o a
   chosen conser vation pr oblem
Week 1 2 Independent w ork Ecological and social science appr oach t o a
  wildlif e trade  chosen conser vation pr oblem
Week 1 3 Student present ations
50COURSES CROSS-LISTED FROM/WITH THE DEP ARTMENT
1. Exploring the Neighbour hood Lab (with ES)
2. Bioph ysics (with PHY)
3. Thermal and Statistical Ph ysics (with PHY)
4. Introduction t o Neur oscience (with PS Y)
5. Advanced t opics in Neur oscience (with PS Y)
6. Evolutionar y Cognition (with PS Y)
7. Com putational and Mathematical Biology (with CS)
8. Field me thods in ecology and conser vation science (with ES)
9. Introduction t o Ear th Sciences (with ES)
10. A Global Hist ory of Science (with HIS and ES)
11. CTS Critical Scientiﬁc Thinking (with CT and PS Y)
12. Environmental Studies (with ES)
13. Ecology (with PHY)
14. Force and mo tion in Biology (PHY)
CROSS-LISTING POLICY
University-wide P olicy
1. The individual depar tments are free to come up with their own policies regar ding how many courses
 they will allow from other depar tments, but if no policy is speciﬁed then they will go with the default
 rule of 2 (for Minor), and 3 for Major .
2. LMS will consider a depar tment that comes ﬁrst in the code as the depar tment that has given the
 course.
3. Any courses that have been cross-list ed can be count ed for 2 or 3 requirements (Major , Minor s,
 etc.) provided it follows the depar tment's cross-listing policy
4. A CTS is ﬁrst a CTS, and then a course from a depar tment, i.e. a CTS is a course that is considered
 arising from another depar tment.
DEPARTMENT POLICY
The Depar tment has no upper cap on the number of courses that you take from outside the depar tment, as long 
as they are cross listed with BIO.
51HAPPENINGS
52Ashok a University, Rajiv Gandhi Education City , Sonipat, Har yana 1 31029
Websit e: https://www .ashok a.edu.in/