 1  
POLITICAL SCIENCE HANDBOOK  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GUIDELINES FOR STUDENTS  
MONSOON 2020  
 
 
 
 2 Department of Political Science  
The undergraduate program of Political Science at Ashoka  University aims to equip students 
with the ability to detect, critically analyse and reflect on the omnipresence of the “political” 
in the world we live in. Through a comprehensive grounding in the foundations of the 
discipline, we shall examine the natur e, distribution and dynamics of power – both at the 
macro level of national and international politics and also at the micro level of the individual, 
family and community. We will map the ways in which knowledge systems and challenges to 
particular power r elations have been constructed over specific vectors of time and space. We 
will study both Aristotle and Plato, Gandhi and Iqbal; complementing studies on comparative 
politics with an exploration of South Asia politics. The Political Science undergraduate 
curriculum at Ashoka exposes students early on to research methodologies, both qualitative  
(the ethnographic methods and qualitative modes of political analysis) and quantitative 
(statistics, political data handling, data visualization). Some of our course s put a lot of 
emphasis on experiential learning through fieldwork and field trips.  
Faculty Members : 
● Ali Khan Mahmudabad  
● Bann Seng Tan  
● Gilles Verniers  
● Malvika Maheshwari  
● Matthew Baxter  
● Madhav Khosla  
● Neelanjan Sircar  
● Pratap Bhanu Mehta  
● Vinay Sitapati  (Head of Department)  
● Priyamvada Trivedi (Visiting)  
 
Requirements for Major:  
Each student will take a total of 12 courses towards the major. For completing a major in 
Political Science, one must take the following courses (4 required courses +8 electives):  
 
● Western Political Thoughts (I) or Introduction to Political Theory  
● Introduction to Comparative Politics  
● Introduction to Indian Politics  
● Quantitative Research Methods or Qualitative Research Methods  
● Eight electives in Political Science (including a maximum of three cross -listed 
courses)  
 
 
  3 Requirements for Minor:  
Each student will take a total of 6 courses towards the minor. For completing a minor, a 
student has to take the following courses (3 required courses +3 electives):  
 
● Western Po litical Thoughts (I) or Introduction to Political Theory  
● Introduction to Comparative Politics  
● Introduction to Indian Politics  
● Three electives in Political Science (including a maximum of 2 cross -listed courses)  
 
Requirements for Concentration:  
 
Each student will take a total of 4 courses towards the concentration. For completing a 
concentration, a student has to take any two of the required courses and two other electives 
(2 required courses + 2 electives):  
 
● Two required courses o ther than the methods’ courses  
● Two electives in Political Science (including a maximum of 1 cross -listed course)  
 
Requirements for Major in Politics and Society:  
 
A student needs to take a total of sixteen courses, out of which one needs to take eight 
courses  in Political Science. Out of those eight, four courses are mandatory, while rest four 
will be electives (4 required courses + 4 electives). The required courses from the Political 
Science side are:  
 
● Western Political Thoughts (I) or Introduction to  Political Theory  
● Introduction to Comparative Politics  
● Introduction to Indian Politics  
● Quantitative Research Methods or Qualitative Research Methods (in either 
Sociology & Anthropology or Political Science)  
● Four electives in Political Science (including a  maximum of 2 cross -listed courses)  
 
Requirements for Major in Politics, Philosophy and Economics (PPE):  
 
Each student needs to take a total of sixteen courses, out of which one needs to take a 
minimum of four  courses in Political Science. If a student takes a minimum of eight courses in 
Political Science, then it would qualify for a Degree in PPE with a speci alization in Political 
Science. The mandatory courses from the Political Science side are (3 + 1/5):  
 
● Western Political Thoughts (I) or Introduction to Political Theory  
● Introduction to Comparative Politics  
● Introduction to Indian Politics  
● One elective in Political Science (4)/Five electives in Political Science (8)  
  4 Note: In case of 4 courses in Political Science, a student can take a maximum of 1 cross -listed 
course. In case of 8 courses in Political Science, a student can take a maximum of 2 cross -
listed courses.  
 
 
Structure for the ASPs (4th Years):  
 
For obtaining  an Advanced  Diploma  in Political  Science,  students  need  to submit  an initial  
statement  of interest  in April  in their  3rd year,  with  the name  of the preferred  advisor(s).  This 
state ment  of interest  should  approximately  be of two pages,  highlighting  preliminary  details  
about  the project.  By the beginning  of the ensuing  summer  break,  students  will be matched  
to an advisor,  who  may  assist  in structuring  a thesis  project  over  the summer.   
 
In the first week  of courses  in the Monsoon  semester  of the 4th year,  students  will be 
expected  to submit  a thesis  proposal  that is 3000 -5000  words.  These  proposals  will be 
assessed  by the appointed  advisor  and a department -selected  second  reader  (who  is not an 
advisor)  for quality,  feasibility  and clarity.  Students  will be given  feedback  on the proposal  by 
the second  week  of courses,  with  one of three  decisions:  (i) reject , (ii) revise  and resubmit , or 
(iii) pass . If the student  is given  a pass,  then  she or he may  continue  to the thesis  program  
without  qualification.  If the student  is given  a revise  and resubmit , then  she or he may  
continue  to the thesis  program  conditional  on completing  the requested  revisions  within  one 
week.  If the student  is given  a reject , then  she or he may  not continue  into the thesis  program.   
 
Upon  gaining  entry  into the thesis  program,  there  are four  requirements  for the year:  
 
• Attendance  at a Year -Long  Thesis  Semin ar 
• End of Monsoon  Semester  Presentation  
• Final  Thesis  Presentation  (End  of Spring  Semester)  
• Final  Thesis  Submission  
 
The grading  scheme  across  these  requirements  and relevant  schedules  will be shared  with  
students  before  course  enrollment  commences  for the Monsoon  Semester.  The final  thesis  
will be graded  by the advisor(s)  and a department -selected  second  reader  (who  is not an 
advisor).   
 
The thesis will be for 8 credits overall (4 in each semester). Students are expected to take at 
least three courses (12 credits) in Political Science during their advanced ma jor. They can also 
choose to TA for Political Science courses instead of an elective and gain credits. Beware that 
TAships are either for 2 credits or 4 credits so make sure that your credits tally properly. The 
number of credits for TAship is determined b y the faculty before the term.  
The department advises students to TA for only one course in a semester.  
 
Additionally, each student will be provided a fixed research budget, which can be claim ed 
upon incurring the expenses. Additional budget can be provided upon request to the advisor 
and the Head of the Department.  
   
  5 Course Levels and Pre -requisites :  
 
Generally, the 100 level courses are entry -level or introductory courses, while the 300 level 
courses are advanced. The department doesn’t impose a sequence of course as per the level, 
but strongly recommends that you clear entry -level courses before takin g advanced level 
courses. Some advanced electives will require you to take Quantitative Research Methods as 
a prerequisite.  
 
For example (non -exhaustive list):  
 
● Quantitative Research Methods 2 : Students must have completed Quantitative 
Research Methods 1.  
● Theoretical Political Economy : Students should have completed Quantitative 
Research Methods 1. They should have either completed or be enrolled in 
Quantitative Research Methods 2.  
● Empirical Political Economy : Students should have completed Quantitative Re search 
Methods 1. They should have either completed or be enrolled in Quantitative 
Research Methods 2.  
 
In the event that a course apart from these has some pre -requisites, it will be communicated 
at the starting of the semester.  
 
 
 
Frequently Asked Questions  
 
 
Q1: What are the compulsory courses for a Political Science major?   
 
1. Western Political Thought I or Introduction to Political Theory  
2. Introduction to Indian Politics  
3. Introduction to Comparative Politics  
4. Quantitative or Qualitative Research Metho ds  
 
Q2: What are the compulsory courses for a Political Science minor?   
 
1. Western Political Thought I or Introduction to Political Theory  
2. Introduction to Indian Politics  
3. Introduction to Comparative Politics  
 
Q3: Is there a sequence in which I should take the required courses?  
 
No. 
 
Q4: How many 100/200/300 level courses do I need to take?  
  6 There is no such requirement to take a specific number of courses of each level. Only the 
required courses are mandatory and can be taken in any sequence, irrespective of levels.  
 
Q5: I’m going on a semester abroad. Can I substitute the required courses with a summer 
abroad course?  
 
No. Required courses cannot be not substituted by summer courses.  
 
Q6: Are Political Ideologies and WPT II compulsory courses?  
 
No. 
 
Q7: What if I have done Political Ideologies/Introduction to Political Theory/Dynamics of  
State Formation in the past as a part of the requirement?  
 
In case you have done Political Ideologies in Spring 2017 or Introduction to Political Theory in 
Spring 2018, you need not do WPT I. If you have done Dynamics of State Formation with Prof. 
Vinay Sitapati in the past, you fulfill the requirement for Introduction to Indian Politics. 
However, if you pursue these courses in any other semester, they will coun t only as electives 
and not as requirements , except for Introduction to Political Theory .  
 
Q8: Can I take Political Ideologies/Introduction to Political Theory (electives) if I have done 
WPT I (required course) and vice versa?  
 
Yes. 
 
Q9: Is WPT a pre -requ isite for WPT II?  
 
No. We do recommend that you take WPT II after WPT I, but it’s not a pre -requisite.  
 
 
Q10: Can I take a methods course in any other discipline?  
 
Yes, you can, with validation from Prof. Sircar  for quantitative courses and from the HoD for 
qualitative courses. In any case, you have to inform the HoD, the OAA and the Department 
Manager about this change.  
 
Q11: How many cross -listed courses can I take?  
 
Cross -listed courses are those courses which  arise out of a discipline different from  Political 
Science but are cross -listed with Political Science. Students can take upto two  cross -listed 
course in a ny semester , provided all other rules are satisfied . The following is a summary of 
the rules around cross -listed courses:  
 
● Pure Major  in Political Science: Maximum 3 
● ID Major in Politics and Society : Maximum 2 
● ID Major in PPE with 8 courses  in Political Science: Maximum 2  7 ● ID Major in PPE with 4 courses  in Political Science: Maximum 1 
● Concentration in Pol itical Science: Maximum 1 
● Minors in Political Science: Maximum 2 
 
 
Q12: How can I get a  course from another department cross -listed?  
 
Write to the professor teaching that course to express your individual interest. Request the 
professor to directly email the course syllabus to the Head of Department, Political Science. 
The department will then take a collective decision , communicate with the professor directly , 
and then in form the students.  
 
 
Q 13: I took a course which was cross -listed with Political Science. It is being offered again 
but is not showing as cross -listed. Is this a problem?  
 
No. It is normal for courses to not be cross -listed with other departments in every semester 
that they’re offered. If you took a course, which was cross -listed in the semester that you took 
it, it will count towards your degree. Please cross -check the course code of such courses in 
your LMS.  
 
 Q14: Can I write a thesi s in the third year?  
 
No. Only ASPs can write a thesis with the department. But you can do an ISM (Independent 
studies Module) with faculty. Some faculty offer ISMs – individual or group -based – others 
take proposals from students.  
 
Q15: I’m interested in TAing for the Spring  semester. How should I proceed?  
 
Only ASP students are eligible to TA for courses. The department notifies all ASPs of TA 
requirement at the beginning of the semester and calls for applications.  But in recent years 
there has been a scarcity of courses available for TA -ship. So students are advised not to 
depend upon it.  
 
Q16: Can 4th year students opt out of an advanced major at a later stage  
 
Yes, provided you fulfil other requirements meant for graduation.  
 
Q17: Can students re -take the same course to get a higher grade.  
 
Yes, but this is at the discretion of the professor offering the course. In case the new course 
is being offered by another professor (for example, because the original professor has left), 
the decision lies with the professor of the new course.   
 
Q18: Whom should I contact for further queries?  
  8 You can email them to the Student Representative Vaibhav Parik 
<vaibhav.parik_asp21@ashoka.edu.in>  or the Department Manager Anjali Panwar at 
anjali.panwar @asho ka.edu.in  . 