Chemistry Handbook  
 
 
 
 
 
GUIDELINES FOR STUDENTS  
Monsoon 2020  
 
 
 
 
Department of Chemistry  
 
                                                Chemistry at Ashoka  
 
 
The chemistry curriculum for undergraduate program  in Ashoka University in the Monsoon 2020 
semester is designed for students at all levels. The students majoring in Chemistry as well as those 
who are interested or doing minor, both will get benefit from this course. Meticulous understanding 
of chemistry for any students is the focus of th is syllabus.  
 
Chemistry is involved in everything we do. Even if y ou are not chemist, every  time you cook,  
bake, use the washing powder, toothpaste or taking medicine, you are dealing with chemicals . The 
study of Chemist ry provides a molecular level of description as well as insights into chemical 
bonding  and give you a perfect picture of bond breaking and forming, overall a reaction. At 
Ashoka, our objective is to teach Chemistry in an integrative and holistic manner connecting with 
other branches of science, physics, biology, computer and environmental science . We are 
constantly trying to correlate with them and bring out the best int erest of our students. We are very 
hopeful to be an integrated part of Ashoka University in near future.   
 
Further, the chemistry department is building up to do innovative and current research. This 
semester we have no lab course officially, but students interested to do any chemical reaction 
studying in theory class are always welcome and perform under the monitoring of professor s. The 
chemistry research requires to have a very sound knowledge on the basic of chemistry and our 
target is to build you up as an aspiring researcher through the basic concept of organic, inorganic 
and physical chemistry in this semester.  We are very certain that this knowledge will take you 
further for any field of science or humanities.  
 
 
 
 The undergraduate Major in C hemistry  
 
The chemistry major in Ashoka University designed with a belief that the students getting  a degree 
in chemistry can take him/her  wherever he/she  want s to go, whether it is industry or immediate 
professional career, or further research  in chemistry or intermediate subjects.  
The chemistry major must complete a total 14  courses to get a graduate degree from Ashoka 
University. This includes 7 core theory courses and 4 lab courses  and any 3 electives.  Courses 
offered by chemistry department  or cross -listed with the chemistry department (if any) will also 
be counted. T he final year  students  will be offered  proposal writing course and can pursue  
independent research in the department.  
 
The core (theory) courses are:  
 
• Energetics of Change (Semester II)  
• Basic Inorganic Chemistry  (Semester III)    
• Concepts in Organic Chemistry (Semester III)    
• Atoms, quanta and light (Semester III)    
• Inorganic Chemistry (Semester IV)    
• Rate, order and mechanism (Semester IV)    
• Mechanistic Organic Chemistry (Semester V)   
• Modern Methods of Analysis and Characterization  (Semester V)  
• Organic Synthesis: Reagents and Synthetic Strategies (Semester VI)  
 
Electives   
 
Electives courses are there to broaden the knowledge of the core courses so that students c an have 
better understanding of the subjects. There are many courses Ashoka chemistry is offering. A 
major in chemistry must choose at least 3  electives to graduate.   
 
Suggested Electives  
 • Applied Organometallic & Coordination Chemistry  
• Environmental Analysis  
• Chemical Biology   
• Chemistry of Materials  
• Renewable Energy: Hydrogen and Solar Energy  
• Materials at nano scale  
• Computational Chemistry and Molecular Simulation  
• Environmental Chemist ry  
• Energy Materials: Batteries, Super capacitors etc  
 
 
The undergraduate Minor in Chemistry  
 
Students from different department are always encouraged to take chemistry as their minor. The 
knowledge will help a student to understand the science in our everyday life. This will also help 
to become a better researcher in any field of science. We believe it’s a  great opportunity for a 
liberal university student.  
 
To pursue minor in Chemistry  at Ashoka, student must take 6 courses. This can include direct 
course offered from chemistry department or cross -listed (if any) with the department. 4 theory 
courses and a ny 2 electives can be chosen to complete a minor in Chemistry. Lab courses can be 
also considered as a minor subject.  
 
Concentration in Chemistry  
 
For taking concentration in Chemistry student must take minimum 4 courses and any 1 elective. 
In this case also lab course will be considered as a concentration subject.  
 
 
 
 Prerequisite  
 
The professors require a minimum knowledge of a student  for a course . It will be always mentioned 
in the webpage of chemistry about the prerequisite or students can directly ask the professors. For 
any introductory theory or lab course and any basic chemistry course no prerequisite requires. For 
example, ‘introductory labo ratory course’ (1401 -1) demands no prerequisite. For 1000/2000 level 
courses like ‘Chemistry for life’ no prerequisite needed, anybody can participate. Students from 
Physics, Biology and Environmental Science can take physical chemistry / theoretical chemis try, 
chemical biology and environmental chemistry course after discussing  with the respective 
professors  without any prerequisite .  
 
The tentative prerequisites are mentioned in the bracket (it may change according to professor 
demand) . These are all 3000 level courses  
 
• Basic Inorganic Chemistry:  Theory Course (None)  
• Concepts in Organic Chemistry:  Theory Course (None)  
• Atoms, quanta and light:   Theory Course (None)  
• Inorganic Chemistry: Theory Course  (Basic Inorganic Chemistry)  
• Rate, order  and mechanism: Theory  Course (None)  
• General Chemistry Laboratory:  Lab course  (Introductory Laboratory Course)  
• Mechanistic Organic Chemistry: Theory Course  (Concept in Organic Chemistry)  
• Modern Methods of Analysis and Characterization: Theory Course  (None)  
• General Chemistry Laboratory: Lab Course  (Introductory Laboratory Course)  
• Organic Synthesis: Reagents and Synthetic Strategies  (Concept in Organic Chemistry)/ 
(Mechanistic Organic Chemistry)  
• Applied Organometallic & Coordination Chemistry  (Basic In organic Chemistry/ 
Inorganic Chemistry)  
• Environmental Analysis  (Concept in Organic Chemistry/ Basic Inorganic Chemistry)  
• Chemical Biology  (Basic Inorganic Chemistry/ Concept in Organic Chemistry/ 
Introduction to Cell & Molecular Biology/ Chemical Basis of Life/ Biochemistry / 
Biology major ) • Chemistry of Materials  (Basic Inorganic Chemistry/ Atoms, Quanta, & Light)  
• Renewable Energy: Hydrogen and Solar Energy  (Basic Inorganic Chemistry/ Concept 
in Organic Chemistry/ Atoms, Quanta, & Light)  
• Materials at nano scale  (Basic Inorganic Chemistry/ Atoms, Quanta, & Light)  
• Computational Chemistry and Molecular Simulation  (Atoms, Quanta, & Light / Physics 
major ) 
• Environm ental Chemistry  (Basic Inorganic Chemistry/ Concept in Organic Chemistry / 
Environmental science major ) 
• Energy Materials: Batteries, Super capacitors etc  (Basic Inorganic Chemistry/ Concept 
in Organic Chemistry/ Atoms, Quanta, & Light)  
 
 
 
Frequently asked questions  
 
If you have any other questions, you can write to your first Point of Contact, the Chemistry  Student 
Representative, Isha Singhal at isha.singhal_ug22@ashoka.edu.in ; or direct your queries to the  
- Head, Department of Chemistry , Professor Sour av Pal  at sourav.pal@ashoka.edu.in  
- UG Program Coordinator, Department of Chemistry, Dr. Munmun Ghosh at 
munmun.ghosh@ashoka.edu.in  
 
1. What are the mandatory courses (or RC’s) for a Chemistry  major/minor?  
We have mentioned this in the section Requirements for Major/Minor in this article 
above: We request you to go through this handbook again.  
 
2. Can laboratory courses  be counted as an elect ive? 
No, it’s a core course. Any Minor also can take lab course.  
 
3. Will the labs be independent of the theory courses - in terms of number of credits 
(and hours)?  All labs are stand -alone courses and mandatory for Chemistry  major students. They each 
count f or the same number of credits as theory courses.  
 
4. Is a thesis mandatory?  
Only for ASP students.  
 
5. Can I complete my major within 3 years?  
Yes. But it is recommended that you stay for a 4th year.  
 
6. I am interested in TA’ing for a Chemistry  course. How can I a pply?  
We haven’t decided about TA in Chemistry course  
 
7. I am a Biology/ Physics/ EVS major. Can I take biochemistry, Theoretical chemistry 
or Physical chemistry and environmental chemistry?   
Yes. But prior to take the courses please contact with the respective professors or HOD 
Prof. Sourav Pal.  
 
8. Does the ASP 4th year count as an Advanced Major?  
Has not been decided yet.  
 
9. Do I need to complete electives for different levels?  
Electives are offered at 300 level. You can choose to do any 3 for a major and 2 for a 
minor  and 1 for concentration.  There is no minimum limit.  
 
10. I am a Psychology/Math/Physics/Computer Science/Environmental Studies student 
and I would like to minor in Chemistry . Will any of those courses be cross listed 
with Chemistry  and count towards my Chemistry  credits?  
As of now, the Chemistry department is not offering any cross listed subjects. For future 
information please talk to Prof. Sourav Pal or Dr. Munmun Ghosh  
 11. What about research opportunities? Are Chemistry  students expected to learn from 
hands -on experience or in  the classroom?  
We are investing in the idea of the 4th year as a time when undergraduates delve into 
research in a serious year -long way. In addition , there are several summer opportunities for 
science and undergraduates can approach labs of their interes t in Ashoka in order to start 
doing research whenever they would like as their undergraduate degree progresses. We 
encourage students to take small projects with the professors  in any time of the year.  
 
12. In what research areas will the Ashoka Chemistry  program specialize?  
We are interested in specializing in various areas of Chemistry as well as some interface 
area with biology and chemistry.  Material science, Inorganic chemistry, Bioinorganic 
chemistry, computational chemistry are the few such mentioned fields , chemistry 
department are offering for research.  
 
13. What is the degree that is offered at Ashoka? Is it a B.Sc. in Chemistry ? Would I get 
a B.Sc. or a B.A. in Chemistry ? 
 The 3-year degree you get if you specialize in Chemistry  would be a B.Sc. However, the 
additional qualification you get for the fourth year would be named as per the norms of 
the State Government.  
 
14. Whom should I contact for further queries?  
You can email your queries to your first Point of Contact, the  Chemistry  Student 
Representative, Isha Singhal , at isha.singhal_ug22@ashoka.edu.in  or contact the HoD, 
Professor Sourav Pal , at sourav.pal @ashoka.edu.in  or Dr. Munm un Ghosh at 
munmun.ghosh@ashoka.edu.in  
 
 
 
 
 
 