




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































How do macroeconomists explain short run macroeconomic fluctuations? And how does this inform macroeconomic policy? This course will provide an in-depth introduction to modern macroeconomic models of business cycles. We begin with a study of the canonical Real Business Cycle model – its assumptions, formulation, and solution methods. We cover the extensions needed to deal with the shortcomings of the canonical model with respect to labour markets and real dynamics. These extensions will cover various leading macroeconomic theories of labour markets, investment and consumption. Finally, we will study the extensions of the canonical model needed to account for the dynamics of nominal variables. The policy implications of these models will be studied throughout.




















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































