




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 







































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 











































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:






































Campus Life










The campus is a vibrant hub of cultural and intellectual activities. The Office of Student Affairs works toward building opportunities that help students nurture their creative endeavours while striving for excellence. The University recently laid the foundation stone for a new 27-acre campus in Sonipat. Adjacent to the existing campus, the new complex will have 6 academic buildings, 10 residential buildings, utility and services buildings and a sports field. The campus will address Ashoka’s increasing focus on the Sciences and research. The 1.80 million square feet of area in the new campus will be integrated with the current facility and will follow Ashoka University’s existing campus design philosophy and unique brick and Jaali façade.






Acre state-of-the-art campus



Fully furnished, air- conditioned rooms



Students studying on Financial Aid











The Office of Student Affairs drives student experience outside the classroom. It is aimed towards making the university life of students enriching and well-rounded. Student Affairs cultivates and promotes student learning and development, with a strong commitment towards diversity, inclusion and mutual respect; physical and mental wellbeing; cultural enrichment and creating opportunities for empowerment.

































The Student Life Office drives the extra-curricular, student leadership and development programming of the University which range from creative and performative arts, leadership and training opportunities, experiential learning, volunteering opportunities, driving student-led programmes and much more. By championing, guiding and encouraging student organisations, clubs, initiatives and events, the Office promotes maximum student participation and involvement in campus life. Through our various programmes and activities, the Office strives to give our students the best of opportunities.
 
Student Services: 





























At Ashoka, when not occupied with academics, students find themselves immersed in pursuing creative hobbies and interests through clubs and societies. These prove to be an ocean of opportunities to contribute to and enrich the campus experience culturally and intellectually. A “club” on the other hand has a very definite field of work it is committed to. A “society” is an umbrella of two or more clubs with diverse pursuits, brought together by a focal interest area.


















Residence Life at Ashoka University welcomes students to a community of diverse and talented scholars, residing in a close-knit and dynamic learning environment. The Residence Life Office is dedicated to creating a safe and vibrant residential experience for students on Campus. The fundamental role and responsibility of students in this regard are to familiarise themselves with Ashoka University Residence Life Policies. As members of a residential community, students are expected to uphold a high standard of character and take responsible ownership of their actions within campus premises. 























Sports and Exercise will be intrinsically tied to the years students spend at Ashoka University. The process of creating truly global citizens is well underway at the sports fields in the University. This unique process does not only provide state-of-the-art sports facilities but also encourages sports to be taken up by one and all. True transformation can only take place when students are able to push themselves out of their comfort zone. This process demands learning more about themselves before they even attempt to change anything around them.





Synthetic Running Track





3 Wooden Flooring Squash Courts





10m Shooting Range





Football Field





3 Wooden Flooring Badminton Courts





3 Basketball Courts




















Ashoka’s purely residential campus is spread over 25 acres in Rajiv Gandhi Education City, Sonepat, Haryana. The WiFi-enabled classrooms are equipped with a state-of-the-art audio-visual system including projectors, smartboards, recording facilities, etc. These classrooms range from 25-seater rooms for seminars and tutorials to 240-seater lecture halls for guest speakers, performances and town-hall sessions. Students also have access to online resources and state-of-the-art IT infrastructure to support their educational endeavors.
































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































