




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 







































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 











































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

























Ashoka’s purely residential campus is spread over 25 acres in Rajiv Gandhi Education City, Sonepat, Haryana. The WiFi-enabled classrooms are equipped with a state-of-the-art audio-visual system including projectors, smartboards, recording facilities, etc. These classrooms range from 25-seater rooms for seminars and tutorials to 240-seater lecture halls for guest speakers, performances and town-hall sessions. Students also have access to online resources and state-of-the-art IT infrastructure to support their educational endeavors.











Dining & Catering Services on Campus caters to over 2000 meals per day. A four floor dining hall with multiple food counters, that caters to students, faculty and staff alike, providing fresh meals of a variety of cuisines, as decided in consultation with the mess committee. The Dining Kitchen has an in- house Bakery that whips out freshly baked breads & confectionery goods, sweets & savories, daily. The Catering Services also plans and executes numerous on-Campus events’ food and beverage requirements. Team Dining at Ashoka aims at giving every Ashokan a varied and satiating culinary experience.
Seating Capacity: 1050 approximately
Timing



Breakfast
8:00 am to 10:30 am


Lunch
12:15 pm to 02:30 pm


Snacks
04:45 pm to 06:15 pm


Dinner
07:30 pm to 10:15 pm



 












Shudh Desi Dhaba – 1:00 pm to 4:00 am (7 days open)
Subway –  12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight (Closed on Sunday)
Fuel Zone – 10:00 am to 8:00 pm (Closed on Sunday)
Hunger Cycle – 10:00 am to 3:00 am (7 days open)
Dosai –  12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight (Closed on Sunday)
Chicago – Pizza 12:00 noon to 11:00 pm (7 days open)
Rasananda Juice Bar  – 12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight (7 days open)
Chai Shai – 10:00 am to 6:00 am (7 days open)
Amul Parlour – 10:00 am to 8:00 pm (7 days open)

*Operational timings and days may vary depending upon the usage and students’ strength on Campus.











Ashoka University facilitates commute through a shuttle service through Tempo Travellers – available for students, staff and visitors – to and from Jahangirpuri Metro Station and Ashoka University Campus, as per the approved and announced schedule. Our primary objective is to provide safe, comfortable and efficient transport facility to our students.











Ashoka University has its own 16 bedded Infirmary set-up for primary healthcare. Infirmary  is located at the Sports Complex and provides free of cost First Aid and medical assistance, to the students, faculty and staff, round the clock.

The infirmary is well equipped and manned by our medical partner Blue Circle Medi Services Pvt. Ltd since inception of Ashoka.
Well-qualified and experienced Resident Doctors run OPD hours in the infirmary as per the prescribed schedule.
The cost of prescribed medicines and medical tests shall be borne by the patient.
All students of the University are covered under an insurance of INR 1 Lac applicable upon hospitalization of 24 hours or more.
Ashoka has tie-ups with Max hospital on Pan India basis and locally with FIMS and Tulip hospital, in case higher intervention is needed.
24×7 Infirmary emergency helpline numbers – 8199977073, 8199977075, 0130-2300550

The Campus is equipped with a 24X7 ambulance. Ambulance assistance would be provided only in case of any medical emergency and need for hospitalization. On such occasions the matter is reported to concerned authorities immediately by the nursing staff. Nurse would accompany the student only during admission and discharge and on an exceptional case to case basis to the nearest hospital / nursing home.











Ashoka University has 2 open amphitheaters located in front of AC-01 and AC-02 buildings. They are used for cultural activities like music, theatre, talks, poetry reading, documentary screening, various language festivals, art competitions, and many other activities.











Dr. Reddy’s Auditorium is the primary auditorium at Ashoka University, located on the 3rd Floor of AC-01. With approximately 400 seats, it is the university’s largest auditorium and hosts special lectures, concerts, performances, and university ceremonies including the annual student inductions, and inaugurations.











Ashoka University has a total of 90 classrooms and 12 teaching and research labs across the 4 Academic blocks. Classrooms differ in size and facilities that assist in delivering lectures and discussion sessions according to the lecturer’s requirements.











Lost and Found
The Lost and Found Desk is located at the reception on the ground floor of the Administration Block. Any unattended item found, may please be submitted at this desk. The owner of the lost item may reclaim their possessions upon due authentication. Valuable items are retained for a period of 60 days and non valuable items for a period of 30 days.
Courier
The Administration department also facilitates courier services. Students may contact the reception desk on the ground floor for sending out their personal couriers on a payable basis between 5pm-6pm on working days. The consignees are requested to track their AWB numbers as the university is not accountable for the consignment at any stage.
SIM cards
Mobile SIM cards may be obtained at the SIM Card kiosk (Location will be specified when the camp is held) after completing all necessary documentation during days of the onboarding of the new batch in the new academic year. SIM cards are available in prepaid and post-paid segments. CUG and circle portability facility can be availed by the users. This transaction is solely between student and the service provider.
Housekeeping in Residence Halls
Students are required to dispose the trash into the central dustbin placed on respective floors. Cleaning of each washroom will be executed by the housekeeping staff on a regular basis as per predefined schedule pasted behind the washroom door. Students’ rooms will be cleaned by housekeeping staff once a week only in the presence of the student. Collpoll, the request app for all the services on campus has to be downloaded on the mobile sets or logged in through the portal. Weekly requests for cleaning have to be routed through this app only.  Only emergency requirements may be reached through the housekeeping helpline +91-7496967703.
Laundry Service
Centralised laundry service is available for students on the ground floor of the residence hall 5 on a prefixed collection and return schedule in standard laundry bags issued by the laundry vendor. New students may collect laundry bags from the laundry located at Residence hall 5 (ground floor) on a payment basis. The approach to the ground floor of RH5 is through the rear of the building, marked with a sign. Residence hall washrooms are also equipped with washing machines for inner wear laundry. Special dry cleaning of apparels may be availed on a payment basis from the laundry service provider.
ATM
ATM machines are installed on Campus, near the dining hall and will be relocated to the AC04. 
Locker Facility
A locker facility is available for students to store their personal belongings during semester breaks or vacations. Lockers may be availed upon advance payment of INR 450/- (for the month of June, July and August only). The contents of an unclaimed locker that has exceeded its term of rent shall be disposed off. Students may contact the Administration help desk/Reception desk on the ground floor Administration block for  booking lockers. This service is available from 10 AM to 5 PM on working days.
Mailroom
Mailroom facility for receiving any mails including couriers is in the basement of AC01/Admin. The service is available from 9:30 AM to 1 PM and 2PM to 5:30 PM.  The university shall not be deemed responsible if any courier is not collected. 












Unisex salon is situated on the Ground Floor of Sports Complex.
Documentation Centre with printing and photocopying facilities on a payable basis located in the Student Commons on the 2nd floor of the Dining Hall.
Provision store with general items will remain open 7 days a week and remain closed on festivals/holidays.
A book-cum-stationery store; open on all weekdays and remains closed on Sundays and holidays.
Students will have access to drinking water coolers, microwave, refrigerator and induction plate in dedicated pantries in residence halls. Students are required to bring their own microwave friendly crockery and cutlery.
Common lounge of each residence halls, dining floor and gymnasium are equipped with televisions.





















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






















































