




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 






































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 










































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

























CWC organizes a wide range of creative programmes that address a variety of issues under the scope of writing and communication. These programs are open to everyone, and cater to a diverse audience from various academic or professional backgrounds and makes for highly engaging sessions with a myriad of perspectives. Since the inception of CWC, these programmes have revolved around themes that include, but are not limited to, creative writing, research practices, communication, music, computer programming, journalism, cinema, comics, law, and photography.
Some of the most popular sessions included:  What’s In a Label? Writing Museum Labels and Catalogue Raisonné by Archishman Sarker; Reading Affect: How Emotions Structure an Archive by Vinky Mittal; Workshop on Fair Paraphrase by Vrinda Chopra; Crafting Effective Transition and Flow by Sampurna Dutta ; Storytelling Through Wordless Picture Books by Anagha Gopal; Art-e-Fact: A Workshop On Narrative Journalism by Jyotirmoy Talukdar; A Workshop On Storytelling In International Development by Vrinda Chopra; Call and Response: Effectively Crafting Conference Abstracts by Senjuti Chakraborti; and  Storytelling In Science by Ipsita Herlekar.




















The CWC ELT team also conducts a host of workshops to develop the participants’ writing, reading, and speaking skills in English. The aim of these programmes is to make English language learning enjoyable and accessible. These programmes are usually conducted online so as to allow maximal participation. Some of the popular ELT sessions include: Persuasive Writing: Techniques and Strategies by Neerav Dwivedi, What We Talk About When We Talk About Reading by Sonakshi Srivastava, How Poems Talk: Narrative Poetry and Oral Communication by Anagha Gopal, and Third Person Singular: A Workshop on the Art of Writing a Bio by Jyotirmoy Talukdar.























 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






















































