




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University



































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 























































































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 



























































































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:


















The undergraduate program in Biology is targeted at students who have strong interests in Biology (Biology Majors). Courses for Biology majors will provide a strong foundation for research and careers in the biological sciences, medicine, pharmaceutical and biotech industry, teaching, and other related fields.










Ashoka was established as a liberal arts research university. Students of Ashoka start querying the growth of human thought, origin, and growth of human civilization in general, Indian civilization in particular. They are introduced to the origin of scientific inquiry and the relationship and inter-dependence between science and other domains of human creativity and critical thinking. On this foundation, fundamental principles of physics are taught to all students, in a way that brings in both the elegance of principles of natural world and the complexity that is still needs to be unraveled. Subsequently, students are introduced to chemical, biological, and human worlds, not as independent disciplines, but as a continuum of the physical world. Mathematics would be taught as a language that connects all these disciplines of science and also as an abstract method by which we understand our surroundings.
Our model of education is concept-based and inquiry-driven, as opposed to the more traditional content-based models. Faculty at Ashoka pursue research in those areas that are related to the topics they teach undergraduate students. The vision is to integrate research and teaching at all levels of science education. Sciences at Ashoka will be rooted in experiments, but these will not take the rigid “objectives, apparatus, method, conclusion” form. Students learn both through taught courses in the classrooms, employing experimental methods in labs, and involved in research with faculty. Students are also exposed to frontiers of science through seminars, symposia, and national and international conferences that are routinely organized on the campus of Ashoka.
The undergraduate program in Biology is targeted at students, who have strong interests in Biology (Biology Major) as well as those who are interested in learning more about Biology or for meeting their scientific temperament needs (Biology Minor). Courses are taught keeping in mind those students may or may not have a prior introduction to basic concepts of Biology.
Courses for Biology majors will provide a strong foundation for research and as well as for careers in the biological sciences, medicine, pharmaceutical and biotech industry, teaching, and other related fields. A prospective Biology major student is required to complete 10 core courses in Biology and suggested optional courses in Science and Biology along with the mandatory requirement of 9 foundation courses.For detailed information about the department, teaching programs, and course information, please check our Department’s Handbook.













Biology major students are required to complete 7 core courses, 4 lab courses and 4 of the several optional courses with the mandatory 7 foundation courses.
For details about the courses and the program, please consult the Department of Biology handbook.








To pursue a minor in Biology at Ashoka, one must complete 6 courses that are either offered by or cross-listed with the Biology department. This includes 4 core theory courses, no lab courses and 2 electives.
For a minor, any 4 out of 7 RC’s are mandatory- For a minor, any 4 out of 7 core courses are mandatory
In addition to the 4 RC’s, a minor must complete 2 ELE courses-In addition to the 4 core courses, a minor must complete 2 courses from the list of electives
For details about the courses and the program, please consult the Department of Biology handbook.












Department of Biology Handbook 





















Ashoka University’s department of Biology offers undergraduate programmes which build a strong foundation for research and careers in Biological Sciences, Medicine, Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Industries, teaching and other related fields. 
























 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































