




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 







































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 











































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

























Our Approach
Sports and Exercise will be intrinsically tied to the years students spend at Ashoka University. The process of creating truly global citizens is well underway at the sports fields in the University. This unique process does not only provide state-of-the-art sports facilities but also encourages sports to be taken up by one and all. True transformation can only take place when students are able to push themselves out of their comfort zone. This process demands learning more about themselves before they even attempt to change anything around them.







 











Vision
Sports and Exercise at Ashoka University works with the vision and objective to create a healthy and holistic life for its students. We channelise sports to enable students in learning and honing life skills and values such as discipline, mutual respect, punctuality, camaraderie, leadership, teamwork, mental and emotional balance. Apart from just trying to make every student physically active, we help them excel in their chosen sport.





















Infrastructure



Synthetic Running Track
 3 Basketball Courts
Billiards & Pool Hall 
Volleyball Court


3 Squash Courts with Wooden Flooring
Table Tennis
Gymnasium
Tennis Court


10m Shooting Range
3 Badminton Courts with Wooden Flooring
Mini Field (for Frisbee, Cricket, Football etc.)
Dance / Zumba Studio


Football Field
Swimming Pool (25m x 21m)
Cricket Practice Nets
Yoga Studio



Guidance by Expert Coaches
The University makes provisions for regular coaching in Football, Basketball, Cricket, Ultimate Frisbee, Volleyball, Swimming, Zumba, Shooting, Squash, Yoga, Table Tennis and Lawn Tennis. A detailed schedule is shared at the beginning of each semester. Gym enthusiasts will be guided by an instructor and Yoga lovers will be guided by an experienced Yoga instructor.
 

 
University Teams



Football
Table-Tennis
Swimming


Badminton
Tennis
Volleyball


Athletics
Squash
Chess


Shooting
Basketball
Frisbee


Cricket

Cycling



 











The initial years of Ashoka University saw many leaders emerge on the Sports fields – from many students picking up sports for the first time in their lives to many learning sports that they never played. The three editions of our Annual Sports Fest AGNEEPATH, gave a great platform to students at National level. Previously organized Annual Sports Meet saw enthusiastic participation from undergraduates and Young India Fellows. Students, faculty and staff together participate in official runs in Delhi like the Airtel Delhi Half Marathon, Ashoka Run, Intra-University, Inter-University leagues and National Level tournaments. Furthermore, our students are engaged in experiential learning in the outdoors, during different treks organized by Ashoka. Through such activities, students encourage each other by being actively involved in organisation and participation.











For the coming year, gear up to represent Ashoka University and participate at various International, National, All-India University tournaments and Banyan League (A collaborative sports initiative of 4 Universities – OP Jindal, Shiv Nadar, BML Munjal and Ashoka to keep the students engaged in 9 sporting events around the year). Our sports teams further represent Ashoka University at various Inter-University Sports festivals/championships organised at various colleges and universities like IIT (Delhi), BITS Pilani (Goa) etc.





















There are a lot of on-campus sports events for the students to participate in like APL i.e. Football league, Basketball league, Badminton league and Intra-Batch tournaments for almost all sports available on campus. Students have ample opportunity on a regular basis, to keep the spirit of sports alive Needless to say, it is their passion and commitment that will make things happen and ensure that Ashoka University is known for its sports culture.





















The Sports and Exercise Office also facilitates and promotes the Sporting ethos on campus by assisting the sports related clubs. Currently we have four registered clubs: Cycling club, Yoga Club, Sports Enthusiast Club and Special Olympic Bharat: Ashoka Sector Club. The clubs engage the students in various physical and voluntary activities throughout the year by organising on campus and off-campus events.




















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






















































