




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































This course introduces basic concepts and theories in the field of international security. The field is organized around the study of war, its causes, its characteristics and its mitigation. War is costly and yet both states and leaders resort to the use of force. Our task is to understand the rationale for this phenomenon.


The course is structured as follows. We start with the major theoretical approaches, realism, liberalism, and constructivism, and their understanding of the causes of war. We will then turn to the rationalist perspective to war and apply it to various issue-areas that have preoccupied both the scholarship and policy-making world. Issue-areas that will be covered include the nuclear proliferation, democratic peace, ethnic conflict, and terrorism.






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































