1 
  
 
ASHOKA UNIVERSITY LIBRARY  
LIBRARY COLLECTIONS POLICY  
 
 
Contents  
1. Introduction: Objectives and Scope  
1.1 Library Mission and Vision Statements  
1.2 Locations  
1.3 Types and Formats  
 
2. Directive Principles for the Collections Policy  
 
3. Collection Development  
3.1 Funding  
3.2 Collaborati ons 
3.3 General Collections  
3.4 Electronic Resources  
3.5 Materials for Users with Special Needs  
3.6 Special Collections  
3.7 Gifts  
3.8 Unsolicited Deposits  
3.9 Digitization and Microfilming  
 
4. Collection Management  
4.1 Cataloguing and Classification  
4.2 Rationalization of Stock  
4.3 Storage and Movement of Stock  
4.4 Transfer, Relegation and Disposal  
4.5 Preservation and Conservation  
4.6 Security  
4.7 Budgetary and Financial Management  
4.8 User Access  
 
5. Guidelines for Considering Requests for the Repatriation of Items from the University 
Collections  
 
 
  
2 
 1. Introduction  
 
Objectives and Scope * 
 
This document outlin es the broad principles followed by Ashoka University Library for building and 
managing a rich, diverse and relevant collection of library resources to promote and support 
teaching, learning and research in the University and, ide ally, in the wider academic and learning 
community. The policy tries to keep in view the evolving dynamics between teaching and research, 
and the acquisition, management and preservation of library resources in the interest of s timulating 
and facilitating the  production of knowledge and its dissemination.  
 
Manuscripts  in various media (paper, palmyra, ba rk, parchment , cloth ), print, microforms 
(microprint, microfilm and microfiche) and electronic resources (e -journals, databases, websites, and 
born-digital material) are all important for research and teaching, although currently and in the 
foreseeable future print and e -texts are likely to be the dominant formats. The aim of the policy is to 
develop and co-ordinate these resources, optimize funds available, and ensure secure and cost -
efficient access to machine -readable formats. In th e latter, the stress would necessarily be on  access 
rather than ownership  rights to the copy. Rationalization of stock needs to be taken into account if 
future growth (estimated to be over at least 500 metres per annum) is to be provided for. This is not 
counting variables such as inflation, fluctuations in exchange -rate, availability of funds and changes 
in curricula and courses. Principles of transfer, disposal and relegation of existing stock have to be 
addressed in the Collection  Management policy. In addition, a shift to e -preference, especially in the 
case of journals, may be necessary as increasing stocks claim shelf -space.  
 
All collections in the University Library system, including those in libraries of Departments, Schools, 
Centres, Museums, Galle ries, Special Programmes, Heritage Collections, Archives, ** Donations and 
acquisitions under special Research Projects would be co vered by the Library Collections  Policy. 
Interpretation , application and review rest with the relevant custodians, such as the  Library 
Committee, the administrators of the Ashoka Archives of Contemporary India, and a Research 
Committee for a funded project.  
 
*The Library Collections Policy is in two parts : the Collection Development (Chapter 3) and Collection Management 
(Chapter s 4 and 5 ). Chapter 3 should be read in conjunction with Chapter s 4 and 5 and vice versa . These need to 
be co-ordinated with Library Rules, relevant Reports , Library Committee Resolutions, relevant decisions of Ashoka 
Archives of Contemporary India, and the  Financial Regulations of the University .   
 
**The document is supplemented by the Archival Policy of the University which is of especial relevance to the Ashoka 
Archives of Contemporary India.  
 
1.1 Library Mission and Vision Statements  
 
The Library Collections Policy is formulated keeping in view the overall Mission of Ashoka 
University and its Vision Statement.  
 
The Statements are: 
 
1.1.1 Mission Statement  3 
  
Ashoka University Library promotes the production and dissemination of knowledge through  
 the collection and creation of a wide range of resources for learning, teaching and research  
 making such resources available to students, researchers and teachers it serves and to th e 
wider scholarly community  
 preserving collections and ensuring their coordinated  management  
 offering research support  
 delivering quality and effective service for their application in the form most relevant to 
users.  
 
1.1.2 Vision Statement  
 
Ashoka  University Library aims to build a rich collection ranging over manuscripts, printed books 
and periodicals, ephemera, microforms, maps, graphic reproductions, teaching tools and machine -
readable texts including e -journals and databases. The collection wil l constitute one of the leading 
resources for learning and research in the country and it aspires to eventually match the best 
international standards for academic libraries. The Library is committed to fostering excellence, 
diversity, academic freedom and  continued improvement in standards. It seeks to be an imaginative 
environment both inside and outside its walls, and home to the intellectual and creative lives of the 
user-community.  
 
The Library will strive to provide efficient, innovative and civil use r-services including  
 research support based on the prioritized needs of learning and research in all disciplines 
taught and studied  
 developing collections in  order to serve needs identified  through a consultative process and 
user-feedback  
 acquisition of rare documents and archival materials, especially items relating to 
contemporary India  
 building heritage collections and special collections th rough purchase and gifts  
 professional collection management including purchase, processing, storage, preservatio n 
and display  
 providing information service adapted to user needs and modes of access  
 fostering independent learning outside lecture -halls 
 providing access to materials and ensuring well -equipped and comfortable spaces for 
differently -abled users   
 supplyi ng tools for the teaching -learning -evaluation process  
 organizing events, exhibitions and programmes to promote lifelong learning, intellectual 
creativity and user -awareness  
 encouraging collaboration and pooling of resources inside and outside the campus to  meet 
user-needs.   4 
  
1.2 Locations  
 
1.2.1 Physical Locations  
                     The first floor and the second floor in the building marked Academic Building 04 ( AC-04) 
                     The basement in Academic Building 04 ( AC-04) housing the Ashoka  Archives of 
Contemporary India  
                     The Library  space  on the Ground Floor of Academic Building 01 ( AC-01) 
 
-------------------------------------------------------  
 
1.2.2 Gateways, Portals, Links   
The IP addresses and links to access library resources and the Online Public Access Catalogue 
(OPAC) are  listed below:   
 Library website: library.ashoka.edu.in  
 e-Library portal: elibrary.ashoka.edu.in  
 Link to OPAC : 125.22.40.134  
 Link to Institutional Repository / D Space: 125.22.40.134.8080/ jspui 
 
 
1.3 Types and Formats  
 
There are seven broad groups of collections.  
 
I: General (p rinted books, journals, pamphlets, newspapers and ephemera in Indian and foreign 
languages,  official reports and gazettes, Parliamentary papers, catalogues, maps, music, drawings, 
graphic prints, photographs, audio -visual materials such as video and audio recordings in different 
media)  
 
II: Special Collections (including Heritage Collections, Rare Books, Gift Collections, and bequests 
that may consist of diverse objects such as personal libraries, manuscripts, books with period 
marginalia and record of provenance, rare documents, memorabilia, scientific instruments and 
models, architectural plans,  stage designs, photographs, art objects, and significant implements of 
textual production which allow one to understand the evolving technologies of the written word —
some of which may be transferred to the Museum or Gallery if and when the University buil ds 
them)  
 
III: Ashoka Archives of Contemporary India (inclu ding select materials hosted or  owned by the 
University)  
 
IV: Microforms (microprint, microfilm, microfiche)  
 
V: Electronic Resources (ma y contain elements of Groups I -IV and VI in addition to data bases, e -
journals, images,  manuscripts archives and born -digital materials available remotely under licence or 
free on the Internet)  
 5 
 VI: Faculty and Institutional Repository (including documents in hard copy or in machine -readable 
formats of institutional  records, course materials, teaching tools, research papers by students, faculty 
publications, research notes)  
 
VII: Collections transferred or relegated to the Store  
  6 
 2. Directive Principles  for the Collections Policy  
 
1. The access to General Collections should be open to browsing and located where they can best be 
used.  
 
2. Special Collections  and Rare Books , especially Heritage Collections, acquired outside the narrow 
limits of disciplinary requirements for research and learning,  are for study in the lib rary and the 
stacks are not open for free browsing . It is preferable that such Collections are purchased using 
endowments and through external fund -raising, or acquired through donations and bequests. The 
acquisitions should not be random, but should be in  accordance with current collections, disciplinary 
demands and priorities of research and teaching. In rare cases, personal libraries and valuable books 
and documents may be purchased at auctions or online. However, these need to be vetted by 
competent aut horities on a case -by-case basis. Authorized and approved agents may conduct 
transactions in cases to save on cost of travel by faculty and library staff.  
 
3. The Library collects and preserves its significant institutional records and the research output of 
faculty and students in manuscript, print and electronic formats in its  Institutional Repository.  
 
4. Journals are best acquired using an e -preference model wherever possible. A Perpetual Access 
mode should be adopted wherever feasible after negotiatin g prices, since the Annual Subscription 
mode is unstable and expensive.  
 
5. Gifts, transfers and relegation of books, manuscripts and archives will be determined using criteria 
listed in the Collection  Management Policy. Criteria  may have to be applied be fore consenting to 
accepting gifts and bequests  (see 3.7 below).  
 
6. Unsolicited Deposits will only be accepted in circumstances listed in  3.7. 
 
7. Duplicate and multiple copies of a print title are best discarded or not acquired, unless the text is 
being used in current or continuing courses and is needed by students.  
 
8. Transfer, relegation and disposal of items in stock, subject to criteria st ated in the Collection 
Management Policy, will aim at achieving a balance between accession  and disposal of material 
needed to make room for new material.  
 
9. The print copies of electronic resources which provide Perpetual A ccess of journals will be 
asses sed by the competent authority for relegation to the Dormitory or S tore.  
 
10. The implications of agreements with other libraries and aggregators concerning access, and of 
inter-library loans may be considered while decisions are made on the acquisition a nd retention of 
material.  
 
  7 
  
Part 1  
 
3. Collection Development  
 
3.1 Funding  
The Budget for the Library sanctioned by the University is the primary source of funds for the 
purchase of material. Additional sources may include ext ernal fund -raising, special one-time grants, 
endowment incomes and donation s. Optimizing of resources will  take into account the strengths 
and weaknesses in th e University’s collections, its prio rities in research and  teaching, and acquisitions 
which  have the potential of generating revenue.  
 
3.2 Collaborations  
Agreements and collaborations with other universities in India and abroad may include Collection 
Development in focus  areas.  
 
3.2.1 Collaborations may be further strengthened by contracts with academic foundations and 
aggregat ors.  
 
3.2.2  Items 3.2 and 3.2.1 may again be supplemented by alliances with consortia and library 
networks and with individual research institutions as and when these are form ed and put into 
effect.    
 
3.3 General Collections (Open Access)  
The Library aims to acquire materials for teaching all undergraduate and postgraduate courses in 
appropriate and available formats. The Library focuses on the acquisition of materials , in Indian and 
foreign languages,  for disciplines currently studied —the humanities, the social sciences and the basic 
mathematical and natural sciences.  Resources for specialized research will follow faculty and student 
requirements. Sharing of resources with other libraries in possessio n of expensive material will be 
preferred in order to optimize the use of funds. In addition to Departments, staff and faculty, 
students are encouraged to specify needs. Materials purchased for projects and special courses, unless 
explicitly specified in t he terms of the grant , will become the property of the University Library. Although 
physically decen tralized, all acquired stock will be  centrally accessioned and processed.   
 
3.3.1 The University may purchase material for General Collections from publish ers, publishers’ 
agents, enlisted vendors, or online vendors. In all cases, the Library will, through the purchasing 
mechanism authorized by the University, compare prices, look for available discounts on net market 
price, and demand price -proofs from supp liers. Valuable print editions of important books and 
multi -volume sets of reference books, estima ted to have a long shelf -life, are best procured  as 
hardback  copies . 
 
3.3.2  The Uni versity Library prefers acquiring  electronic resources in the P erpetual Access mode. 
However, when this is not feasible, the provider may permit licensed access for the tenure of the 
contract. The Library will make  use of consortial alliances and partnership s wherever possible to 
acquire materials, and negotiate with suppliers fo r the lowest rates admissible.  
 8 
 3.3.3  The general view of the University is that users should not be permitted unlicensed and 
unauthorized access to electronic material. Nor should  the Library encourage the unauthorized use 
of material in copyright or of pirated texts (including images) in any format.  This general view is subject 
to the University Policy on Copyright.  
 
3.3.4  The Library allocates a n amount in its budget to reference guides, subjects in the Minor 
curricula, and interdisciplinary studies. These would also in clude dictionaries and encyclop edias in 
English and other Indian languages, bibliographies, biographical dictionaries, atlases, online 
databases of scholarly reference materials, and reference guides in print and, wherever available, in 
electronic and other machine -readable formats.  These materials need not necessararily  be 
recommended by Departments. Recommendations may come from members of the faculty, 
members of the Library Committee, members of the Library staff, researchers and students.  
 
3.4 Electronic Resources  
3.4.1 Journals , wherever possible and when funds permi t, will be  acquired in the e -format. The 
Library will review the renewal of licence agreement s, and assess value for money, data analysis, 
relevance, licence terms for multiple use, possibilities of duplication in other packages  purchased , 
future problems in Collection Management, and sustainability of the purchasing model.  However, 
when funds are scarce , the Library will ensure that no researcher, student or faculty is underserved, 
making alternative arrangements , such as inter -library loans , whenever nec essary.  
 
3.4.2  E-preference will guide acquisitions of current journals, archives of back issues (such as 
JSTOR), full-text databases (such as the Early English Books Online  or EEBO ), abstracting and 
indexing tools.  
 
3.4.3  E-books are an option especially in the case of languages in which printed texts are not easily 
available in India.  
 
3.5 Materials for Users with Special Needs  
Texts in braille, audio books, vector images and electronic tools (such as voice -text synthesizing 
software) are recommended, as necessary,  for purchase to serve users with special needs   
 
3.6 Special Collections  
 
Special Collections, especially  Rare Books  and collections of heritage value  (on occasions collectively 
referred to as Heritage Collections in this docume nt), seek to augment holdings in addition to 
materials purchased to meet subject requirements for research and learning.  It also seeks to build 
Collections that would supplement the Ashoka Archives of Contemporary India which touches 
upon virtually all asp ects of the intellectual and cultural life of India’s present and recent past.  
 
3.6.1 The Library aims  to acquire rare printed books;  manuscripts  in different materials such as 
paper, parchment, bark , cloth  and palmyra; printed proofs; images;  letters;  photographs as prints, 
negatives and slides; drawings and graphic prints;  maps;  archives (including publishers’ archives) ; and 
unpublished material s such as official records and personal diaries through  gifts, bequests, purchase, 
deposit and transfer.  
 9 
 3.6.2 In particularly relevant cases, to be decided on a case -by-case basis by the Library Committee 
or any other com petent authority appointed for the purpose,  these may be purchased at auctions 
keeping in view the cost and benefit (including intangible on es) involved.  
 
3.6.3  All special items will be assessed, keeping in view the disciplinary interests and strengths of the 
University  Collections , principal areas of c ollections, the gaps in its holdings . The objective is to 
serve the international community of scholars, while according priority to the need of the facul ty, 
researchers and students at the University.  
 
3.6.4  Gifts, Deposits and Transfers pertaining to any Special Collection will be subject t o Deed of 
Gift, Deposit A greements and internal transfer procedures  stated in the Collection Management 
Policy . Periodic reviews of these Collections  will aim to assess use, cost of maintenance and 
sustainability.  
 
3.7 Gifts 
Donations and bequests of book s, journals and documents in any of the usual formats acquired by 
the Library are welcome, especially of materials relating to curricula and courses , and of valuable 
archival materials to the custody of  Ashoka Archives of Contemporary India.  
 
3.7.1 Donors  are invited to send lists of items, including formats, titles, authors (if any), dates of 
publication, and a brief description of their physical condition (e.g. brittle, hardback with spine 
partially damaged, etc .) to be gifted to the University. In certa in cases, where the number of items is 
unusually large, the University may help donors with the listing, especially if the donor is unable to 
do so because of reasons such as poor health. Help may be offered in the form of secretarial 
assistance or financi al compensation for hiring assistants. But such instances should be exceptional, 
and such gifts should be  esteemed to be rare and valuable.  
 
3.7.2  The acceptance of gifts is at the University’s discretion, and the Library Committee may seek 
the expertise of members of the faculty for selecting offered items.  Accepted gifts become the 
property of the University and, as owner, the University reserves the right of retention, location, 
processing, remova l and other relevant aspects stated in the Collection Man agement Policy. 
However, Ashoka Arc hives of Contemporary India may  serve as custodians  of materials gifted on a 
permanent basis. The ownership of the materials gifted to the Ashoka Archives may be retained by donors . 3.7.2  
should be  read in conjunction with the Archival Policy of the University.  
  
   
3.7.3  Duplicate copies of items owned by the Library are not accepted except when additional 
copies of a text are needed for teaching . Another exception to the rule is in  the case of items of a 
named collection or archive which is to be accepted in its entirety . A similar exception may be made 
when a duplicate copy is valued for copy-specific reasons such as information on provenance, 
publishers’ notices in the oddments, authorial inscriptions  and period marginalia.  Materials available 
elsewhere such as duplicate typescripts, facsimiles, photocopies and off -prints are usually unaccepted 
unless there are compelling reasons to do so (e.g. such as a duplicate typescript showing marks of 
censor’s deletions) . In all such instances, the experts authorized by the University will arrive at the 
final decision.  
 
3.7.4  The legal implications of the terms and conditions under which a prospective donor is willing 
to make a gift (such as a special name  for the c ollection, location and display for a donated archive, 10 
 display of brand name for corporate donations, restrictions put on access etc .) will be considered 
when deciding on acquisition or retention.  
 
3.7.5  The University Library welcomes supplementary donations made toward processing and 
retention of the gif ted material.  
 
3.7.6  All donations toward the Library infrastructure are ack nowledged in ways agreed to by the 
donor and the University.    
 
3.8 Unsolicited Deposits  
The Library may take on deposit unsolicited items for a mutually agreed period , if the materials are 
deemed of value for research and teaching. Their long -term status will be determined through an 
expert review by the University Library.  
 
3.8.1 Depositor s are liable to be charged a fee for processing, storage, security and maintenance for 
the agreed period. The fee will be determined in accordance with the physical condition and size of 
the deposit.  
 
3.8.2  Should the depositor wish to sell the materials an d should the University Library agree to 
acquire the materials permanently, the University Library will reserve first right of refusal, and will 
expect  to be offered the materials at a discounted price estimated on the deemed market valu e. 
 
3.9 Digitization and Microfi lming 
The University aims , in the long run,  to digitize select primary materials such as those items in the 
Ashoka Archives of Contemporary India and other items in the Rare Books Section and the Special 
Collections. This would help  in restricting access to the physical, occasional brittle, documents, and 
yet enable access.  
 
3.9.1 For documents digitized or microfilmed, a ccess will be  provided through files in PDF, while 
TIFF versions would be retained for storage. Scholars who need  to examine the physical objects 
need to furnish reasons for seeking access to the physical documents. Such  requests, if and when the 
concerned documents are digitized, will be considered by members of the faculty engaged by the 
Library Committee because o f their expertise in the related field. Until such time, h owever, the 
original physical copies may be consulted at the discretion of the authorities in charge of the Library 
and the Archives, and displayed at exhibitions and library -related events after en suring appropriate 
security. The clauses in  3.9 related to the Ashoka Archives of Contemporary India are to be read in 
conjunction with the Archival Policy  of the University .  
 
3.9.2  In the absence of in -house capacity, digitization is to be done by experienced service -providers 
who meet the technical and financial requirements specified by the University in its invitation for 
bids. In exceptional circumstances, the Board and leadershi p might recommend a service -provider over the lowest 
bidder because of their proven record of excellence or the sensitive nature of the documents to be digitized.  
 
3.9.3  Identifying items to be digitized will be guided by research needs, the heritage statu s of the 
items, teaching requirement s, significance to the wider community of scholars and citizens, urgency 
relating to conservation and restoration, prospect of generating income for the Li brary  and the 
potential to encourage units or users to partially fund the costs. The Library Committee will 
establish a decision -making mechanism for selecting items for digitization.  11 
  
3.9.4  Digitization enhances access, but preservation is achieved through microfilms. If and when the 
University Library identifies mater ials for microfilming  following procedures similar t o those for 
selecting materials to be digitized, service providers would be engaged following principles and 
procedures adopted in the case of outsourcing the work of digitization.  
 
3.9.5  Microforms acquired by the Library through microfilming its collections or through gifts must 
be stored in a dedicated Section or in a n equipped  place s ecured against fire.  
 
3.9.6 Microfilms will be read in the library using microfilm  readers. Prints of microfilmed materials 
may be allowed at the discretion of the Library Management . The latter may charge a specified  fee 
for the service.  
  12 
 Part 2  
4. Collection Management  
 
Within the terms of this Policy and other aspects such as Collection Development, Ashoka Universi ty Library will 
follow a policy of non -discrimination, that is, it will not exclude materials, dispose of them, or restrict access to them on 
the basis of the race, nationality, religion, ethnic or linguistic identity, gender, sexual preference, doctrinal or sectarian 
considerations of either their producers or their users. Acquiring an item, or providing access to it, does not imply that 
the University endorses any statement or opinion contained in it.  
 
The Collection Management Policy is designed to be r ead with the  Collection Development Policy, 
and is part of the Collections Policy of the University Library. It is aimed at the effective 
management, in all its aspects, of collections in all formats and of all types. The aspects include 
cataloguing and classification ; rationalizing of physical stock; storage and movement of stock;  
transfer,  relegation and disposal; preservation; budgetary management; security; and user -access.  
 
4.1 Cataloguing and Classification  
 
4.1.1 Cataloguing and classification follow the Dewey Decimal System and are individually recorded 
in an online catalogue.  
 
4.1.2 Archival and manuscript materials follow requirements of collection -level records in degrees of 
detail as required by the material.  
 
4.1.3 The catalogue including the OPAC will fol low MARC 21 standards.  
 
4.1.4 It is recommended that the metadata of digitized material created follow Dublin Core 
standards in order to conform to the protocols demanded in international collaborations and 
exchange.   
 
4.1.5 General Collections are put on Open A ccess and arranged according to the classification 
system adopted.  
 
4.1.6 Manual records, if any, are retro -converted for the online catalogue.    
 
4.1.7 Electronic resources follow the principles applied to physical stock, ideally with a link t o the 
source. The principles will be , when necessary, adapted to the requirements of terms and conditions 
of acquisition.  
 
4.2 Rationalization of Stock  
 
4.2.1 Duplicate and multiple copies of a material will be acquired, accepted as gifts and retained only 
in instances stated in 3.7.3 .  
 
4.2.2  Printed duplicate or multiple titles of books and journals  are liable to be assessed for relegation 
and disposal.  
 13 
 4.2.3  Duplication of electronic titles will also be avoided . The general principle will be part of the 
process of acquisition and evaluation of e -resources.  
 
4.2.3  Members of the faculty will be encouraged to propose a reasonable ratio of multiple copies per 
student of material required for courses taught.  
 
4.2.4  Print copies of electronic journals whi ch provide guaranteed access in the long -term to 
electronic back -files will be assessed for relegation to S tore. Following the relegation period, titles 
may be transferred or disposed in accordance with principles stated in 4.7.  
 
4.3 Storage and Movement of Stock  
 
4.3.1 In the interest of maximizing shelving space, enhancing security and facilitating Open Access, 
the Library will examine whether identified duplicate and multiple copies or low -use materials 
should be relegated to the Store.  
 
4.3.2  The Stor e will be Closed Access and may employ mobile shelving with flexible gangway width.  
 
4.3.3  The Library will arrange a delivery service to and from the Store following procedures of 
document delivery or inter -library loans.  
 
 
4.4 Transfer, Relegation and D isposal  
 
a) Transfer  is the relocation from one library to another or one collection to another (for 
example, from the Main Library to a Special Collections).  
b) Relegation  is the relocation to a Store.  
c) Disposal  is the removal of the physical item by discard, gift or sale.  
 
4.4.1 Usage statistics will be a factor in the transfer, relegation and disposal of some categories of 
material (such as text -books that were set for discontinued courses). But it will not be  the sole determining 
factor, or even the dominant factor, given that a University Library has to keep in view the needs of scholars in the 
future and the requirements of those who study and research minority specialisms.  
 
4.4.2  Special Collections , Rare B ooks and heritage acquisitions will be treated as exceptions to the 
general principle of 4.4.1.  
 
4.4.3  In cases where the general principles do not apply, the issue will be referred to the Library 
Committee to be decided on a case -by-case basis.  
 
4.4.4  The Library staff concerned will decide on transfer, relegation and disposal in consultation 
with subject experts from members of the faculty.  
 
4.4.5  Transfer, relegation and disposal will be advertised in advance for users on the Library website.  
 
4.4.6  Criteria for Transfer  
 14 
 The following categories of materials may be assessed for transfer to Special Collections and Rare  
Books Section  as is deemed fit  in each case : 
 
a) all print material pre -dating 1800  
b) materials published prior to 1867, the year the Indian  Press and Registration of Books Act 
was first passed  
c) materials pre -dating 1914, the year the Indian Copyright Act was passed  
d) materials containing book plates, colour illustrations, maps, diagrams, photographs   
e) manuscripts  
f) photographic prints from origin al negatives  
g) items with evidence of important ownership, inscriptions, censors’ deletions and stamps, 
significant marginalia, and record of provenance  
h) limited editions (limited to 150 copies or fewer)  
i) private press publications  
j) fragile and valuable items  
k) items in rare (for Indian c ollections) languages and characters  
l) prints or manuscript on rare materials (e.g. parchment, palm leaf, bark, cloth, paper made 
from cotton)  
m) wood cuts and xylographs  
n) books with ornamental or period binding  
o) any item associated wi th the University or its institutional history  
p) copies autographed by the author or  gifted to an eminent recipient by the author  
 
4.4.7  Criteria for Relegation  
 
The following categories of material may be considered for relegation to store:   
 
a) books, journals and documents with demonstrably negligible user -interest  
b) superseded editions of standard text -books  
c) material in subjects and specialisms not currently taught or researched at the University  
d) hard copies of books accessible in electronic fo rmat 
e) material to be retained under collaborative agreements or contractual obligations  
f) criteria 4.4.7 (a), 9b), (c), (d),  and (e) are subject to conditions stated in 4.4.1  
 
4.4.8  
Criteria for Disposal  
 
The following c ategories of material may be  considered for disposal:   
 
a) University records that do not fulfil the criteria of the Collection Development Policy as 
extended to the Institutional Repository and Ashoka Archives of Contemporary India  
b) irreparably damaged material, especially those likely  to contaminate proximate material on 
shelves and cabinets  
c) duplicate or multiple copies and superseded editions of text -books not requisitioned from 
the Store for over 5 years  
d) duplicate or multiple copies of printed books of demonstrably negligible value  
e) duplicate or multiple sets of low -use journals  
f) duplicates of items held in the Store  15 
 g) duplicates of low -use print material available as  reliable texts in machine -readable format  
h) low-use m aterial readily available from the S tore or through inter -library lo an or document 
delivery  
i) print material, including abstracts and indexes, held  in a more convenient format  
j) material to which the Library has secure access from a trusted electronic archival source  
k) outdated reference sources, except for items of historical r esearch value  
l) outdated reference sources taking up shelf -space in Open Source General Collections  
m) imperfect copies in which the imperfections have neither demonstrable nor likely 
bibliographical significance  
n) items the possession of which has been declared a punishable offence under the law  
 
 
4.5 Preservation and Conservation  
Preservation  is aimed at complementing the work of acquisition and making available recorded 
knowledge considered valuable. It indicates the goal of the Library in its strategy for ret ention, 
especially its Special Collections.  
 
Conservation  refers to professional care taken by the Library through the application of technical 
means to enhance the longevity of material and, especially,  to protect collections of archival and 
heritage val ue.  
 
Unless especially required by the context, both will be covered by the word ‘Preservation’ in Section  4.5. 
 
4.5.1 Preservation entails the environment in which Collections are stored and used; procedures of 
handling; treatment of materials in the process of binding, repair and conservation; guidelines related 
to displays and exhibitions; security measures (see 4.7) and the training of staff and users.  
 
4.5.2  The Library Official designated the Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the care of 
the collections, including their preservation. Conservation staff are responsible to the Director of 
Library Services / Chief Librarian.    
 
4.5.3  Official s and members of the staff may be assigned  special  responsibilities in the Library and 
Ashoka Archives of Contemporary India by object types —material on paper,  printed books, 
photographic prints and plates, audio recordi ngs.  
 
4.5.4  Preservation will prioritize areas considered the strengths in the Library’s collections and in the 
teaching and research at the University.  
 
4.5.6  All items in Special Collections , the Rare Books Section  and those which have heritage and 
unique value will have priority irrespective of their use in current and continuing courses.      
 
4.5.7  Preservation strategy will be guided by the following principles:  
 
a) respect for the integrity of the original object  
b) reversibility of treatment wher ever technically feasible  
c) minimal approach to intervention  
d) technical documentation of treatment  
e) respect for cultural diversity and values  16 
 f) paying due regard to aesthetic, historical, scientific and social  dimensions of concerned 
items   
 
4.5.8  The broad strategy for Preservation will include  
 
a) careful handling of items by staff and users for which periodic preservation training for staff 
and advice to users would be arranged  
b) restricted photocopying of materials at risk  
c) identifying, following and , if needed, developing standard professional protocols for 
materials in transit between Library -locations, for document delivery, for inter -library loans, 
for exhibitions and display, for repair and treatment, for transfer and for relegation to Store  
d) ensuring appropriate storage for acquired material, including oversize and unbound materials 
such as drawings, architectural plans, graphic prints, cartoons for paintings, newspapers, 
hand -tinted illuminations in printed books, collotypes, cartographic items, posters, 
ephemera, oversized unpublished theses etc.  
e) providing protective measures including boxes, cabinets, large storage units and protective 
enclosures for Special Collections , Rare Books  and Ashoka Archives of Contemporary India  
f) using gloves, book sofas for heavy and valuable items with vulnerable spines, perspex book -
rests, bead- or foam -rests or any other such item serving a similar function by staff and 
readers as and when required   
g) ensuring controlled lighting for aging print  items and manuscripts  
h) ensuring appropriate temperature and humidity control for archival items on sensitive 
materials such as bark, palm leaf,  parchment, cloth  or paper made from cotton  
i) observing principles of Preservation and care for items taken out for  exhibition and display  
j) creating user copies in physical or electronic formats for use and exhibitions when the 
original is deemed vulnerable  
 
4.5.9  The following standards are recommended to ensure appropriate physical environment for 
Preservation:  
 
a) Th e ideal temperature and humidity level for Preservation of stocks and for user comfort 
is 20 to 23 degrees Celsius and relative humidity 40% -60%. Conditions may vary according 
to physical location and its architecture fabric, and seasonal fluctuations. Bar k manuscripts, if 
acquired, would need a constant temperature of 18 degrees Celsius. Special standards may 
have to be set for rooms housing unique or heritage objects. Temperature and humidity are 
to be maintained at controlled levels throughout the day an d throughout the year. Vulnerable 
items needs to be acclimatized slowly when moved to avoid thermal shock to the material.  
b) Exposure to sharp light results in degradation in physical materials. Overhead lights in 
stacks will be switched off when the stac k is not being used. Light from windows in the 
stacks should be minimal, especially when the storage area is not being used by staff.  
c) Ultraviolet absorbing window panes, supplemented by infra -red ab sorbing film to control 
heat may be  recommended  at the discretion of the Library management . 
d) Installation of air -filtration system to minimize suspended particulate matter is 
recommended, especially for the Archives.  
e) Routine cleaning and pest -control exercises are to be carried out in consultation and 
supported by the Operations team and authorities entrusted to look after the property. 
Dusting in controlled atmosphere, however, is to be minimal and gu ided by advice from 
experts in P reservation of the objects housed.  17 
 f) Food, drink and pens will not be pe rmitted in the Archives and Special Collections. Only 
pencils and laptops may be taken inside.  
g) Photographs of materials in stock using cameras or cameras in mobile phones may be 
taken only with permission from the library staff in the section. Photograp hs of archival and 
heritage materials may be taken by special permission only.  
h) Users of readers of microforms and print -out from microfilms will adhere to the 
conditions stated in the Library rules.    
 
 
4.5.10  Microfilming and Digitization  
 
4.5.10.1  Microfilming and digitizing may be outsourced in the absence of in -house capacity. Service 
providers bidding for work orders and contracts will have to abide by the technical and financial 
criteria set by the expert assessing committee.  
 
4.5.10.2  Materials will be sourced out only if no damage to the original object is guaranteed in the 
contract. The condition will apply to other forms of reprography: digital imaging, photocopying, 
vectoring, dubbing, etc.  
 
4.5.10.3  In particular instances, hybrid cameras fo r microfilming and digitizing simultaneously may 
be used to protect the object from being subjected to handling twice by agencies —once for 
microfilming, and again for digitizing. For the same reason materials microfilmed and microfiche d 
may be digitized wi thout handling the original physical format.   
 
4.5.10.4  In cases  where a choice of formats for C onservation of heritage items is available, durability 
will be a determining factor. Hence, the cause of permanence may be better served by microfilms, 
while digitization will enhance access, securing the physical object from frequent handling.  
 
4.5.10.5  In the case of bhasha  documents , special attention will be paid to Unicode compatibility, 
skew correction, the possibility of using Optical Character Recognition software and the 
searchability of digitized items.  
 
 
4.6 Security  
The Security of the Univers ity Library pertains to violations of the Library’s building and property 
through abuse, theft and infringement of Library rules. Violations against persons are subject to 
other University policies and regulations.  
 
4.6.1 The following actions constitute v iolations of Library security:  
a) ‘misshelving’ or hiding Library property for exclusive use by an individual user or group  
b) ignoring notices for return of overdue items  
c) damaging Library property by mutilation or defacement  
d) stealing Library propert y and / or possessing stolen items  
e) removing or trying to remove Library property without permission  
f) profiting from or smuggling out or unlawfully copying Library property  
g) refusing to produce membership or identification documents on request from L ibrary staff  
h) remaining in the Library premises without permission if and when the Library is closed  
i)  inciting others to violate security.  18 
 4.6.2  Procedures  
In the interest of security, Library staff are authorized to  
 
a) check books and possessions such as bags of users leaving the Library in spite of the self -
check -in and self -check -out facilities  
b) request users to show identification documents  
c) question a person found engaged in violating Library rules and security  
d) report  violators to the University authorities for inquiry and disciplinary measures   
 
4.6.3  Disciplinary Procedures  
 
4.6.3.1  Any violation or suspected violation of Library security will be reported for inquiry and 
equitable disciplinary measures by the compet ent authority appointed by the University.  
 
4.6.3.2  Punitive actions may range from reprimand to dismissal depending on the offence of the 
user.  
 
4.6.3.3  Law enforcement agencies will be informed in cases of criminal offences.    
 
 
4.7 Budgetary and Financial Management  
To meet its mission goals and be consistent with its vision statement, the Library has to supply and 
sustain resources in its Library and Archive through strategic financial management and practicable 
budgeting. For this purpose, the C ollection Policy of the Library comprising both Development and 
Management need supportive funding.  
 
4.7.1 The overall budget proposed by the Library Advisory Committee in consultation with 
academic Departments, Schools and Centres  will be considered by the Head of  Finance, and put up 
to the  relevant  Finance  Committee for approval.*  
 
4.7.2  Interim budg etary supplements for prioritize d immediate needs may be requested by the 
Library, following the same procedure.  
 
4.7.3  However, al l attempts are to be made to reconcile immediate academic needs with overall aims 
of long -term Collection Development.  
 
4.7.4  External funding will be sought and accepted in consonance with the nature and goals of the 
Library.  
 
4.7.5  Private and public so urces of funding may involve conditions and obligations. Once accepted 
after careful consideration, all such conditions and obligations will be fully met.       
 
 
4.8 User Access  
 
4.8.1 All bona fide  members of the University community may have access to t he resources and 
services of the library. They include currently enrolled students, faculty, officers and members of the 19 
 non-teaching staff. Professors Emeriti and retired employees will have access to the resources and 
services of the Library. They will not be deemed ‘external’ users.  
 
4.8.2  In conformity with the Mission and Vision of the University, the needs of faculty, researchers, 
students and staff engaged in the approved programmes of teaching and research will have priority 
in accessing Library se rvices. Extent of services to external users will not be allowed to disrupt the 
full discharge of obligations to current bona fide  members.  
  
4.8.3  External members may b e restricted from accessing specified  resources and services at the 
discretion of the authorities.  
 
4.8.4  Registered alumni and alumnae may use the Library resources and services. However, user -fees 
may be charged at the discretion of the authorities for  certain specified services. Prevailing rates of 
fees wi ll be notified in the website.   
 
 
4.8.5  Some resources of the Library and Ashoka  Archives of Contemporary India --manuscript, print 
and electronic, may only be available onsite for external users. Such external users will include 
alumni and alumnae and students whose registrations have lapsed.     
 
4.8.6  The University may make provisi on for the use of the Library resources and services without 
the payment of membership fee by  
 
a) members of partner institutions in collaborative programmes and teaching  
b) faculty and students on exchange or extension programmes  
c) visiting faculty and research students  
d) research students working under the direct guidance of a member of the faculty  
e) members of libraries with which the University Library may have arrangements for inter -
library lending  
f) qualified members of the faculty, librarians a nd researchers of other institutions of higher 
education  
g) citizens of India when the relevant material sought may be deemed a resource for public 
service (e.g. a document needed by the law courts) or community information system (e.g. a 
document required  to provide weather warnings)  
h) immediate families of resident staff over the age of 18  
i) business users recommended by sponsors or any member of the Board  
j) donors of special collections.  
 
4.8.7  External users may be charged membersh ip fee and user -fees for specified  services at rates 
determined by the authorities. Categories of external users to be charged membership fees will be 
decided by the concerned management appointed by the University. Prevailing rates of fees will be 
notified in the website.  
 
4.8.8  External users of all categories will have to register themselves and procure identity cards or 
access passes for use of the Library onsite after paying the membership fee as applicable.  
 20 
 4.8.9  Visitors must procure access passes for entering the Li brary after registering details about 
themselves as and when requested. Users’ details as provided on request will be logged on the 
Library system.  
 
4.8.10 Additional conditions apply in the Ashoka Archives of Contemporary India, the Rare Books 
Section and  Special Collections.  21 
 5. Guidelines for Considering Requests for the Repatriation of Items from the University Collections  
 
5.1 Guidelines  
The guidelines and procedures in this section will be used to consider whether an item or items from 
the University’s Collections may be repatriated to bona fide claimants or competent authorities. The 
following criteria are to be considered in assessing requests for repatriation:  
 
5.1.1 Evidence of past ownership and the claimant’s relation to past owners and thei r 
authority to make such a claim or request must be furnished.  
 
5.1.2 History of acquisition of the item by the University will be examined.  
 
5.1.3 Evidence must be furnished of the cultural, religious or scientific importance of the item 
to the comm unity or group if a request is made in its name.  
 
5.1.4 The repatriated item should be returned to the care of an institution or individual 
capable of looking after such an item.  
 
5.1.5 The particular individual or community taking custody of the repatriated item should 
have acceptab ility to the group  claiming the item, and the items should be available to 
scholars for research and study.  
 
5.2 Procedures  
 
5.2.1 Once a request is processed, procedural guidelines for repatriation will be determined by the 
authority empowered by the University to assess the merits of a case. Domain experts may 
be called in to assess a request, and the University will engage the comp etent authority 
according the nature of a case. However, the head of Collections (e.g. the Director of 
Library Services / Chief Librarian or any other official of a relevant designation that the 
University may appoint) will report to the Board of Managemen t the recommendations of 
the experts concerning repatriation and, when necessary, of the procedure of repatriation.  
 
5.2.2 All government procedures will be followed in instances where an item involves other 
countries or any government insti tution  in India such as a library, archive and museum,  
owned or governed by the state.  
 