




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 

















































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 





















































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

























Ashoka University’s Masters programme in Economics has been developed to provide students the opportunity to be trained in modern Economics by highly qualified economists. Our approach to Economics is a comprehensive one. We believe in teaching students both how to ask and address questions that are informed by economic theory as well as how to substantiate their arguments with rigorous data analysis.
The course work in the programme has been designed with the latest research in mind and draws on some of today’s most exciting research fields. At the end of the programme, students are expected to have state-of-the-art quantitative skills valued both in academia and in the corporate world.
The first batch of MA Economics students graduated in 2019. Since then, our students have been placed in several corporate and research firms. Many have gone on to pursue higher academic degrees as well.




















 
We also take great pride in preparing and nurturing our students for higher studies in economics. Our students have received admissions offers in Ph.D. programs from prestigious universities such as Princeton University, University of Michigan, University of British Columbia, Boston College, University of Warwick, Pennsylvania State University, University of Minnesota, University of California Irvine, University of Virginia, Stockholm School of Economics, Tufts University, University of Houston, ISI, Ashoka and JNU, to name a few.













In the corporate sector, MA Economics graduates are being recruited for the positions of consultants, analysts, data scientists, and management trainees. Some of our alumni are employed in American Express, Fractal Analytics, Euromonitor, Religare, Dr. Reddy’s Foundation, RocSearch, MXV Consulting, Indus Insights, Better.com, Egon Zehnder, to name a few. Our students are also working as researchers in organizations such as J-PAL, Good Business Lab (GBL), IFMR (KREA University), IIM Calcutta, Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), Delhi, Indian School of Business (ISB), CAFRAL (RBI), National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP), to name a few. In our short history of three years, the average pay package has been 9 lakhs per annum, with the highest pay being 18.8 lakhs per annum. This year we had the highest placement rate. In 2021, 90 percent of students who registered an interest in corporate placement were able to secure a job.






















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






















































