




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University



































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 
















































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 




















































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:














           











Research at Ashoka










At Ashoka, we push frontiers of knowledge to achieve research excellence across multiple disciplines. The amalgamation of basic sciences with humanities and social sciences has created a vibrant environment which facilitates several unique interdisciplinary research opportunities for researchers at the university. From fundamental questions in physics to Indian Ocean history, Research at Ashoka is driven by innovative ideas. The diversity of experience and research in Ashoka’s faculty reflects the University’s foundational goals. Ashoka actively strives to build inclusive communities and empower students to see the world differently – through work, in and outside the classroom, in peer interactions, and towards communities.







































































 












It’s through partnerships and collaborations with institutions/universities/industries/organisations both in India and abroad that Ashoka is advancing research and knowledge and is creating a skilled workforce. Through collaborative research, there is a scope to exchange ideas across disciplines, building new skills, raising more funds, and producing better quality of results.
Ashoka University is expanding its ongoing collaborations with leading research and teaching institutions worldwide, for curriculum, faculty and student exchange, and research activities.
 









































 




                                            22 January, 2020







 







 






 






























 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University





















































