




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































The course is primarily targeted towards students who are interested in getting a flavour of economics in their academic journey without necessarily specialising in it. The course introduces you to the framework and language used in economics to assess and understand the world around us. The course will help you answer the following questions using an economic framework. How do people make decisions? How to make sense of the decisions taken by people? How do you come up with a causal framework to understand a phenomenon? How do economists formulate and test a hypothesis? In which cases the markets provide the efficient outcome and where should governments intervene? Students will also be introduced to certain aspects of economic history, the role of economic institutions in governing the trajectory of economies and our lives, principles of decision making in a world marked by scarcity and strategic interaction. We will also go on to cover other topics, including discrimination, unemployment, inequality and poverty.






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































