




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University



































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 

















































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 





















































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:


















Ashoka University’s department of Chemistry teaches the subject through a holistic approach by interconnecting other branches like Physics, Biology, Computer Science and Environmental Science. The BSc (Hons.) programme in Chemistry offers the fundamental knowledge of how Chemistry shapes the entire universe.
Chemistry is at the centre of everything. The study of Chemistry provides the synthetic skills of making molecules and materials and  a molecular level of description and insights into chemical bonding, as to why a bond breaks and a new bond is formed. At Ashoka, our objective is to teach Chemistry in an integrative and holistic manner connecting with other branches of science, physics, biology, and material chemistry. 


Ashoka undergraduate program in chemistry is quite different from the standard Chemistry programs at this level. It will raise the inquisitiveness and help prepare the students to tackle the real world problems.














Opportunity to do Research Projects: Students will have opportunities to work on research projects alongside the PhD scholars in the department. Students can learn advance analytical/synthetic techniques. Will also get hands on experience of sample preparation and characterization using various instruments such as NMR, Fluorimeter, Cyclic Voltammetry and GC-MS etc. 
As a long term objective, the department seeks to promote the spirit of entrepreneurship, translation of many of the researches in the above areas for societal needs and connection with industries related to the above areas










The Department of Chemistry has created an elaborate curriculum which includes Organic, Inorganic and Physical Chemistry.
Curriculum Committee Members
1. Prof G Mugesh, IISc Bangalore  
2. Prof. Vidya Avasare, HOD, Chemistry, S P College, Pune 
3. Prof. A. K. Singh, IIT Delhi                       
4. Prof. C. Subramaniam, Deptt of Chemistry, IIT Bombay
5. Prof Debabrata Maiti, Deptt of Chemistry, IIT Bombay 
6. Prof. Rama Kant, Deptt of Chemistry, Delhi University 
7. Prof. Archita Patnaik, Deptt of Chemistry, IIT Madras  
8. Prof Rita Kakkar  
9. Prof. Sashank Deep, IIT Delhi
















The chemistry major in Ashoka University is designed with a belief that the students getting a degree in chemistry can take him/her wherever he/she wants to go, whether it is industry or immediate professional career, or further research in chemistry or intermediate subjects.
Requirements:
Students are expected to take 14 courses to earn their major in Chemistry. Of these, the course break-up is as follows:
Gateway Courses
7 Core Courses
4 Lab Courses
3 Electives
Up to 3 cross-listed courses from another department can count towards the major.
*The Critical Thinking Seminar is a mandatory requirement for batches from the Undergraduate Batch of 2023. Previous batches can count a CTS towards their requirements, but they are not required to do so. Instead, they can fulfill their requirements by taking another 1000/2000-level elective.











Students from different department are always encouraged to take chemistry as their minor. The knowledge will help a student to understand the science in our everyday life. This will also help to become a better researcher in any field of science. We believe it’s a great opportunity for a liberal university student.
Requirements:
To complete a minor in Chemistry, a student must do 6 courses:
This can include direct course offered from chemistry department or cross-listed (if any) with the department. 4 theory courses and any 2 electives can be chosen to complete a minor in Chemistry. Lab courses can be also considered as a minor subject.












Experiment name: Quantification of Phosphoric acid in Coca-cola









Books:

 ” Quantum  chemistry ”  by  Ira N  Levine
 ” Quantum  chemistry: Fundamentals  to  Applications”  by  Tamás Veszprémi
 “Fundamentals  of  Molecular  spectroscopy ” by Colin  N  Banwell and  Elaine M. Mccash
 “Physical  Chemistry”  by Peter Atkins and Julio de Paula
 “Molecular quantum  mechanics”  by  Peter Atkins
 “Modern Quantum Chemistry: Introduction to Advanced Electronic Structure Theory” by  Attila Szabo and Ostlund, N. S.
 “Density-Functional Theory of Atoms and Molecules”  by Robert G. Parr  and  Yang Weitao
 Basic Inorganic Chemistry F.Cotton, G. Wilkinson, P. Gaus
 Inorganic Chemistry: Principles of structures and Reactivity J. Huhey, E. Keiter, R. Keiter
 Inorganic Chemistry: Shriver & Atkins 
 Inorganic Chemistry: Catherine E. Housecroft & Alan G Sharpe
 Inorganic Chemistry: Purcell & Kotz










Chemistry UG students will have a much wider career options to choose for their next level studies
Chemical biology and drug discovery is one such important area where knowledge of chemistry is essential
Chemistry as a subject is truly interdisciplinary and bridges with physics and biology, both
Majority of chemistry topics/research areas are applied science types, and therefore opens up huge career
opportunities in academia as well as in industries
Chemistry and chemical processes play crucial roles in both, pharma and polymer industries
In order to reduce the adverse impacts from existing materials, new materials need to be discovered and that puts
chemistry at the centre of science education













Department of Chemistry Handbook





















Ashoka University’s department of Chemistry offers detailed undergraduate programmes which prepare students for successful careers in Research, Innovation, Higher Education and related fields of Science.



















Hear from Prof. Sourav Pal, Visiting Professor of Chemistry, and Isha Singhal, Chemistry Major (Batch of 22) on the unique ways in which Chemistry is taught at Ashoka. At Ashoka, our objective is to teach Chemistry in an integrative and holistic manner connecting with other branches of science such as physics, biology, and material chemistry. The main aim of the department is to integrate interdisciplinary research with teaching.
































No, it’s a core course. Any Minor also can take lab course.











All labs are stand-alone courses and mandatory for Chemistry major students. They each count for the same number of credits as theory courses.











Only for ASP students.











Yes. But it is recommended that you stay for a 4th year.











We haven’t decided about TA in Chemistry course.











Yes. But prior to take the courses please contact with the respective professors or HOD Prof. Sourav Pal.











Has not been decided yet.











Electives are offered at 300 level. You can choose to do any 3 for a major and 2 for a minor and 1 for concentration. There is no minimum limit.











As of now, the Chemistry department is not offering any cross listed subjects. For future information please talk to Prof. Sourav Pal or Dr. Munmun Ghosh. 











We are investing in the idea of the 4th year as a time when undergraduates delve into research in a serious year-long way. In addition, there are several summer opportunities for science and undergraduates can approach labs of their interest in Ashoka in order to start doing research whenever they would like as their undergraduate degree progresses. We encourage students to take small projects with the professors in any time of the year.











We are interested in specializing in various areas of Chemistry as well as some interface area with biology and chemistry. Material science, Inorganic chemistry, Bioinorganic chemistry, computational chemistry are the few such mentioned fields, chemistry department are offering for research.











The 3-year degree you get if you specialize in Chemistry would be a B.Sc. However, the additional qualification you get for the fourth year would be named as per the norms of the State Government.











You can email your queries to your first Point of Contact, the Chemistry Student Representative, Isha Singhal, at isha.singhal_ug22@ashoka.edu.in or contact the HoD, Professor Sourav Pal, at sourav.pal@ashoka.edu.in or Dr. Munmun Ghosh at munmun.ghosh@ashoka.edu.in























 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































