




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

























The Office of the Dean of Faculty oversees the functioning and welfare of Ashoka University faculty. The Office coordinates with various Departments for the recruitment of new faculty. It oversees the tenure and promotion process. It is responsible for the administrative management of faculty leave and sabbaticals and the annual faculty research grant.
Other aspects that fall within the purview of the Office range from faculty-related data management to logistical assistance to new faculty. The Office addresses day-to-day concerns that faculty may have, within and outside the classroom.
In these various roles, the Office contributes towards promoting the well-being of the members of the Ashoka community.





























Dean, Faculty and Professor of  Environmental Studies and Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University
  Ph.D. Cornell University




















Assistant Manager, Office of Dean of Faculty, Ashoka University
  MA Liberal Studies - Ashoka University




















Manager, Office of Dean of Faculty, Ashoka University
 




























 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






















































