




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

































Throughout the year, Ashoka University organises a number of events for prospective students to attend so that they may learn more about the University and its liberal arts programme.


















































































































Ashoka University is located on NH1 in District Sonepat, Haryana. The highway connects Delhi to Karnal, Ambala, Chandigarh and J & K. The campus is a ten minute drive from the Dekhi-Karnal (Haryana) border.
If you drive from Delhi towards Panipat, the campus­, a red bricked building is visible on your right. The campus is accessible only via Gate no. 2 of the Rajiv Gandhi Education City (1km ahead of Gate no. 1). The Ashoka University Admissions Office is however, located in Vasant Kunj, New Delhi.













 



 













Regular visits to the Ashoka University campus located in Rajiv Gandhi Education City, Kundli (Haryana) in the National Capital Region are organised and coordinated by admissions representatives. This is so that visitors can experience student life and activities on campus, and interact with current students, administration, faculty and the admissions team.
Ashoka University organizes campus tours every monday and friday (except public holidays).

 
You can also take a virtual tour of the campus .
Ashoka Shuttle Buses are available from Jhangirpuri metro station (Yellow Line of the Delhi Metro) to transport visitors to and from campus.

















































































Members of our Outreach Team have visited over 350 of the best schools across Asia and the Middle East and have held sessions to discuss the merits of and need for liberal education in India with bright students from these institutions. Recently, our outreach activities have also extended to a few African countries.
During these sessions, our team members work with students to better understand their perceptions of higher education. They are a way to create a dialogue between the University and its prospective students, who are essential for building and shaping the face of an pioneering institution.



Let us know if you would like us to visit your school, or if you know of a school where we should hold an interaction with senior school students by filling out this form:

 
































Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung Scholars ProgrammeYoung India Fellowship
























Workshops are led by Ashoka University faculty and designed to simulate the Ashoka classroom experience. They are both interactive and interdisciplinary, and attempt to challenge the way senior school students think about seemingly common issues. During these sessions students are encouraged to ask questions and think critically about the topic at hand.
Many of our workshops are scheduled in major cities so that students from multiple schools can attend
Below is a list of past and current workshop titles





















































Ashoka University hosts various Open Houses throughout the year in different cities. This is a time when the university invites parents and students to have an interaction with our founders and faculty.

















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University





















































