




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University
































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































This graduate level course will focus on the physics of symmetry using the mathematics of group theory and representation theory. Symmetry is a fundamental concept throughout physics, be it particle physics and field theory, condensed matter physics, cosmology, quantum mechanics/quantum information or atomic and molecular physics.


The basic concepts of geometrical symmetry,  finite groups and their representations will be covered. A physically oriented  introduction will be given to Lie algebras and Lie groups and their representations. The emphasis throughout will be on the particular rather than the general. Familiar concepts from quantum mechanics will be used repeatedly - for example, the hydrogen atom spectrum and its symmetries will arise repeatedly during the study of Lie groups. Rather than develop the general theory of semi-simple compact Lie groups, the important concepts will be illustrated through particular examples. For example, the groups SO(2), SO(3), SU(2), SU(3) etc. as they arise in physics and their unique and distinctive features and representations. 


Pre-requisites: Quantum Mechanics


References: Group theory in a nutshell for physicists, by A. Zee


                       Shattered Symmetry, by P. Thyssen and A. Ceulemans


                       Group Theory and Physics, by S. Sternberg


 






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































