




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University



































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 

















































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 





















































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:


















The three-year B.A. (Hons) programme in Economics at Ashoka University is designed to provide students with a sound understanding of the principles of economics. Students will master a set of tools that will enable them to think critically and contribute to debates on a wide array of interesting problems and issues of public policy.
Although the primary focus of study will be on economics, students will be exposed to ideas and techniques from many other disciplines through the Foundation courses in other disciplines such as History, Sociology, Literature, and Politics. Students will also be taught the quantitative techniques in Mathematics and Statistics that have become an integral part of modern economic analysis.
We are confident that students will imbibe the skills necessary to enter a wide range of careers. Some will go on to further studies in Economics. Some others may wish to work as professional economists in the private or the public sector.
The department recommends that students complete mathematics in Classes 11 and 12 to be eligible for any economics-related major or minor. This includes the pure Economics major and the three Interdisciplinary majors of Economics and Finance; Politics, Philosophy, and Economics; and Economics and History.Students meeting this requirement are automatically eligible for all economics-related majors or minors.
For students who have not studied mathematics in Classes 11 and 12 to be eligible for any economics-related major or minor, they need to:
a) Take MAT 1000: Calculus (a 1000-level course) offered by the Mathematics department in their first semester and
b) Secure at least an A- to be eligible










Ashoka University’s Economics programs are taught by faculty members who hold expertise in Game Theory, Behavioural Economics, Experimental Economics, Macroeconomics, Microeconomics and much more. The faculty combines superb teaching with focused research. 













The total number of minimum credits required by students to graduate with an Economics major is 100 credits. Credit requirements for interdisciplinary majors are listed below.
Cohort of 2020-23 Onwards: Foundation Courses: one must take eight (8) foundation courses and one (1) ICT.
Compulsory courses in Economics: these include nine (9) courses — Introduction to Economics, Mathematics for Economics, Microeconomic Theory I, Macroeconomic Theory I, Statistics for Economics, Microeconomic Theory II, Macroeconomic Theory II, Econometrics, and Development Economics.
Elective courses in Economics: one must take six (6) elective courses in Economics from a set of courses to be offered in the 5th and the 6th semesters.

Cohort of 2019-22: Foundation Courses: one must take eight (8) foundation courses and one (1) ICT.
Compulsory courses in Economics: these include nine (9) courses — Introduction to Economics, Mathematics for Economics, Microeconomic Theory I, Macroeconomic Theory I, Statistics for Economics, Microeconomic Theory II, Macroeconomic Theory II, Econometrics, and Development Economics.
Elective courses in Economics: one must take six (6) elective courses in Economics from a set of courses to be offered in the 5th and the 6th semesters.
Cohort of 2017-2020 (UG20): To fulfill requirements for Economics Major, students from this batch need to take 6 FCs, if they have taken “Indian Civilisations”. If not, they need to take 7 FCs.
Cohort of 2018-2021 (UG21): Students from this batch need to take 6 FCs.
Critical Thinking Seminars: students from this batch must take 1 ICT and 1 CTS.
Compulsory courses in Economics: same as current.
Elective courses in Economics: same as current.











For a student to Minor in Economics, one must have studied mathematics in Classes 11 and 12.
For the cohort of 2016-2019: Students will have to do Maths for Economics, Intermediate Microeconomics, Intermediate Macroeconomics, Statistics for Economics, Econometrics and choose one other course from the list of courses offered by the Economics faculty. Mathematics for Economics is offered in the Spring Semester (Jan-April). Statistics for Economics, Intermediate Microeconomics and Intermediate Macroeconomics are offered in the Monsoon Semester (Sep-Dec). Statistics is a prerequisite for Econometrics, which is offered in the Spring Semester (Jan-April).
For the cohorts of 2017-2020 and onwards: Students must take the following economics courses:
1. Introduction to Economics
2. Maths for Economics
3. Microeconomic Theory I
4. Macroeconomic Theory I
In addition to the above requirement, students completing the minor in Economics must also take either of these two combinations: Statistics and Econometrics OR Microeconomic Theory II and Macroeconomic Theory II.











A prospective Economics interdisciplinary major student needs to earn 116 credits by the end of 3 years. The department of Economics currently offers 3 interdisciplinary majors:











For a student to get a Concentration in Economics, one must have studied mathematics in Classes 11 and 12.
For the cohorts of 2017-2020 and onwards: Students must take four (4) courses. These are Introduction to Economics, Maths for Economics, Microeconomic Theory I and Macroeconomic Theory I. Introduction to Economics and Maths for Economics are offered in the Spring Semester (Jan-April). Microeconomic Theory I and Macroeconomic Theory I are offered in the Monsoon Semester (Sep-Dec).
Please note that some of the courses have pre-requisites. Students have to consult the Faculty coordinator in Economics about what course they should choose in Economics.











Sample Curriculum Structure for the batch of 2020-2023 (UG23)
Pure Economics:



Semester I
Semester II
Semester III
Semester IV
Semester V
Semester VI


Introduction to Critical Thinking
Foundation Course 4
Foundation Course 6
Foundation Course 7
Foundation Course 8
Economics Elective Course 3


Foundation Course 1
Foundation Course 5
Statistics for Economics
Econometrics
Development Economics
Economics Elective Course 4


Foundation Course 2
Introduction To Economics
Microeconomics Theory I 
Microeconomics Theory II
Economics Elective Course 1
Economics Elective Course 5


Foundation Course 3
Math for Economics
Macroeconomics Theory I 
Macroeconomics Theory II
Economics Elective Course 2
Economics Elective Course 6



 
Note :

Two additional co-curricular courses can be taken, with a maximum of one  per semester
Blue colored boxes: Foundation Course or Critical Thinking Seminar
Red colored boxes: Economics Compulsory Courses
Peach colored boxes: Economics Elective Courses













Department of Economics Handbook 





















Ashoka University’s department of Economics offers a wide array of undergraduate programmes which imbibe the requisite skills in students to pursue careers in private, public and teaching fields. Students can specialize in financial, managerial, international, industrial or other areas of economics.



















Yes, your degree will display the major and the minor you’ve completed.












Economics and Finance requires 19 courses – it is an academically demanding major and will take up a large portion of your time at Ashoka. Three years at Ashoka give you space for 29 courses (excluding co-curriculars), of which (19 + 9 FCs) 28 slots will be accounted for. The pure Economics major requires 15 courses. With FCs, 24 out of 29 courses are accounted for. Beyond that, extra courses will need to be accommodated in summer semesters (a maximum of 2 courses per summer sem) and in the fourth year. In order to complete Eco-Fin and one (or two) minors or concentrations will need careful planning depending on the requirements of all the departments and will definitely require you to take summer semesters and a possible fourth year. The fourth year, without the Advanced Major, also allows a maximum of 22 credits per semester – this will amount to 5 4-credit courses per semester and a co-curricular/TAship/2-credit course. For help planning out your schedules, feel free to reach out to the relevant student reps.











Most mandatory courses are only offered in certain semesters and must be taken in a sequential order. Hence one might need to take 2 courses in one semester to finish a minor.












The courses for the major and minor are the same, and are taken by the same Professor. There is no difference in the content, only the number of courses.












A minor consists of 6 courses, while a concentration consists of 4 courses. Which one you prefer depends on the depth you’re looking to achieve in any field – it’s a personal preference. There is no limit to the number of minors/concentrations you can complete, but the demands of the Eco-Fin major are rigorous and it will likely be difficult to find space in your schedule to accommodate more than one minor/concentration.











Completing a minor, along with the Economics major, is possible in three years. Summer semesters will likely be required in order to accommodate all courses. 











Yes, you can. The course requirements of both your subjects will help you plan out your schedule for the three years. It is advisable to start thinking about a minor early on in order to accommodate all courses, given the sequential nature of the Economics program.












It is not possible to do a thesis with a minor. You may be able to do an ISM, given that you can find a professor to advise you.











The choice between a summer semester and an internship is completely dependent on your interests. The balance between work experience and additional coursework will depend on what your future plans are.












Foundational courses offered by the Economics department are typically not math intensive. They do not require students to have taken Maths at a higher secondary school level.












Two co-curricular courses do not come under the Economics program, but are a part of the university’s degree requirements. To graduate with a UG degree in three years, a minimum of two co-curriculars need to be completed. 











Yes, math in 11th and 12th is required for any program in Economics.











The specific programming language covered will depend on the faculty. There is an emphasis on STATA in the Econometrics course. R may be taught by some professors. A few elective courses introduce you to MATLAB and the software zTRee as well.












The department has a flexible course cap policy which can be changed on the basis of the number of registered students, thus ensuring that every interested student is accommodated. Even if the course cap is reached, if there is a student who needs to do a particular course in order to meet their graduation requirements, they will be manually added to the class. We request you to get in touch with the OAA and the HoD in this regard.












Maths for Economics is a specialised course that deals specifically with the mathematical concepts required for Economists. While taking this course would ensure that you are up to date with all the math that one might need for an Economics major, one may also choose to take more general calculus/linear algebra courses offered by the Maths department if one feels it might be beneficial.











Course caps depend on the course type, the Professor offering that course, and the number of interested students taking that particular course. Introductory level courses typically have a higher cap than electives. However, all course caps are flexible.












The course limit for a semester is 5 courses + a co-curricular (6 in total). Economics at Ashoka is an academically intensive course and most students do end up taking 5 courses along with one co-curricular course in at least one semester during their program. It is recommended that you finish your co-curriculars early so that you can devote time to academics in your third year.












The Economics major is one of the more rigorous programs offered at Ashoka. One of the reasons for that is that it has 15 required courses, versus the standard 12. It might require you to take 5 courses in multiple semesters, which can be academically challenging. But connecting with your professors and forming study groups with classmates can make the load much easier to handle. 











Students having completed certain calculus courses from the Math department may be allowed to substitute them for Maths for Economics. Similarly, doing MAT201: Probability and Statistics and MAT311: Statistical Inference substitutes for Statistics for Economics. However before taking any of these courses, it is necessary to inform and seek permission from the HoD.
 











No, a PPE with a specialisation in Economics and a pure Economics degree are fundamentally different and may not receive equal weightage.












Different PPE tracks have different numbers of courses. A PPE major must do a minimum of 4 courses in each of the disciplines i.e. politics, philosophy and economics, and can do a maximum of 8 in any one discipline. From the perspective of the Economics department, students may choose to do 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 courses in Economics depending upon their interests. Depending on which track you choose, the courses may be more theory-intensive or quantitative.












Students may and do choose to take a summer or semester abroad in a variety of universities across the world. Given the rigid structure of the program, the courses to be taken abroad will need to be in sync with the ones required by the department. Before planning, it is necessary to get a clearance from the department (UG coordinator and HOD) with the course description and other relevant information of the intended course.












An Economics major can find employment in a wide variety of fields, including but not limited to research, consultancy, NGO work, policy, banking etc.












The core courses (9 in total) are mandatory and 8 of them are required to be completed in the first two years. The 9th core course, Development Economics, and the 6 Elective courses are to be taken in the third year. The core courses lay a foundation for the study of Economics, while the electives deep-dive into specific areas of research in the field.












On the basis of one’s interests and the availability of the course. It is recommended, at an undergraduate level, to have a mix of Micro and Macro based elective courses instead of specialising in one subfield.












Yes, some Economics courses are cross-listed with Environment Studies. Courses offered by other departments may also be cross-listed with Economics in the future. Please refer to the course list shared by your student representatives for more details on the same.












You can take a maximum of two cross-listed courses. 











It is not mandatory for prospective economics majors at Ashoka to take Calculus in their first semester. The department does not have a policy on the course and does not make any formal recommendations. However, if students feel that the course will be beneficial to them outside of the Eco/Fin program at Ashoka, they are welcome to take it. The recommended/required undergraduate courses for a Master’s in Economics differ by university.
























 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University





















































