




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

























Please find below all the policies relevant to Ashoka University’s Undergraduate Admissions. Read through all the policies carefully before submitting your application form.












An applicant can apply in any of the four rounds, but only once within the Admissions Cycle. Duplicate applications will not be considered and might lead to termination of the applicant’s candidature
The round in which an applicant applies does not affect their chances of being shortlisted for the Interview or for admission to Ashoka University
All decisions taken by the Admissions Committee are final. No request for re-evaluation of the final decision received by the applicant will be considered
The choice of preferred Majors specified in the application form is only indicative in nature. Undergraduate students at Ashoka University will have to declare their Major at the end of their third semester
The admissions process will be followed in its entirety on the basis of the merit of the applicant. No other formal or informal recommendations from any individual(s) will be entertained or considered
No details on the Application Form can be changed once the form has been submitted
Application Forms for Financial Aid will be open to candidates only post receiving a Firm Offer of Admission from Ashoka University. Candidates who have been made a Conditional Offer of Admission or have been waitlisted will have access to the Financial Aid Application Form only if they receive a Firm Offer of Admission. 
Applicants must read the policies carefully to ensure their Application Forms follow the stated requirements. If an application form is found to be ineligible, the candidature of that particular application will no longer be considered for the shortlist for the interview round. An application form will be considered ineligible if it reflects any of the following:

Submission of more than one application form/duplicate application form
Misrepresentation of any information in the application form
Any content that has been copied or plagiarised from elsewhere and mentioned on the application form


If an Application Form is found to be incomplete, that application might not be processed within the round in which it has been submitted. An Application Form will be considered as incomplete if it reflects any of the following:

Invalid or illegible government ID or attachment of a non-government ID as proof of identity
Discrepancy or mismatch between scores mentioned in the attached marksheet(s) and the manually entered scores in the application form
Password protected mandatory attachments 
Illegible Class X marksheet  
Illegible Class XII Final Board/Predicted marksheet
While digital marksheets issued via DigiLocker will be accepted, screenshots of unverified electronically generated results will render the application incomplete
For applicants from IB and Cambridge A Levels Educational Boards- If the applicant does not have their Final Class XII grades/scores at the time of applying, and they do not provide their Self Predicted grades/scores and the correct details of their school counsellor
For applicants from all other Educational Boards- If the applicant does not have their Final Class XII grades/scores at the time of applying, and they do not provide either their Self Predicted grades/scores or submit their School Predicted grades/scores


An application is complete only if the assessments are taken. An application will be annulled if the applicant has submitted the application form but not taken the assessments in the round in which they have applied












Once an applicant has completed all the components of the application process and submitted their form, the applicant will have to participate in the mandatory Assessments, which requires the applicant to take the Ashoka Aptitude Assessment and write an On-the-Spot Essay. The Admissions Committee will evaluate each application in a holistic manner and shortlist candidates for the Interview.
The Office of Admissions follows the policies given below:

Ashoka University does not have a policy of deferral of admission. An Offer of Admission is only valid for the academic session commencing at the end of the Admissions cycle in which the candidate has applied. If a candidate wishes to delay their joining by a year or more, they will have to re-apply and go through the entire admissions process within the Admissions Cycle for the academic session they wish to join
A candidate is eligible to receive a firm offer of admission from Ashoka University based on their overall performance in their academic and non-academic pursuits as well as their performance in the Assessment and Interview Rounds. The academic parameters requires a candidate to submit grades/scores from Grades X to XII. In the absence of Grade XII/Equivalent examination final scores, a candidate is required to submit Predicted Grades, which is considered as an indication of their performance in their final Grade XII/Equivalent examination results. However, no firm offers or decisions will be taken based on only the Predicted Grades of the candidate
All applicants will be required to appear for the Assessments and take the Ashoka Aptitude Assessment and write the On-the-Spot Essay. Applicants who submit their SAT/ACT scores in their Application Form are also mandatorily required to take the Ashoka Aptitude Assessment. However, if their performance in the SAT/ACT is better than their performance in the Ashoka Aptitude Assessment, the higher score will be considered in the evaluation of their application
Indian applicants may send their official SAT scores to Ashoka University through the College Board portal for free. Our DI Code for SAT applicants is – 7343. All applicants applying with SAT/ ACT scores need to send us their official transcripts
Applicants will be shortlisted for the interview based on a holistic evaluation of their Application including their performance in the assessments. Shortlisted Candidates will appear for an interview within the round in which they have applied
Admissions decisions are rolled out at the end of each of the four rounds within the Admissions cycle. Once a candidate has participated in the interview, they can expect to receive one of the decisions/notifications mentioned below












Offer of Admission – The candidate will be made a firm offer of admission, after which they are only required to pass their final Grade XII/Equivalent Examination
Conditional Offer of Admission – The candidate will be required to meet the conditions specified by the Admissions Committee in their decision notification
Waitlisted – The possibility of an Offer of Admission at the end of the admissions cycle or earlier based on the availability of seats but to be decided by the Admissions Committee
Deferral of Decision – The Admissions Committee defers the decision of the candidate until the candidate submits their final Grade XII/Equivalent Examination scores
Denial of Admission – The Admissions Committee denies admission to the candidate based on their overall performance in the holistic admissions process
Annulment of Application or Candidature – The Admissions Committee annuls an application or candidature if the candidate fails to participate in all components of the admissions process or does not submit mandatory documents required by the committee











Please  to read Ashoka University’s Educational Board-Specific policies.











Ashoka University has specific policies for particular disciplines/courses for students who wish to Major or Minor in any of the disciplines listed below:



Major or Minor
(Disciplines) 
Subject(s) Required in Grades XI and XII
Department-Specific Details


Economics, Economics and Finance, Economics and History, Politics, Philosophy and Economics
Mathematics
The Department will allow students the opportunity to attempt a Major/Minor in Economics provided they take the Mathematical Thinking Foundation course and the Calculus Enabler course (in Semester 1) offered at Ashoka University. Students are required to pass the Mathematical Thinking Foundation course to pursue an Economics Major/Minor and to graduate with an undergraduate degree. The Economics Department requires that students take the Calculus Enabler course in Semester 1 and get a minimum grade of A- for them to be considered.


Mathematics
Mathematics
For the Department to make any exceptions, students will have to demonstrate to a Faculty Advisor that they have sufficient knowledge and grasp of Mathematics (equivalent to the CBSE/ISC Grades XI and XII Mathematics course). Students are required to take the Mathematics Foundation Course and the Calculus Course early on to assess if they will be able to pursue Mathematics as a Major or Minor


Computer Science, Computer Science and Entrepreneurship, Computer Science and Mathematic
Mathematics
The Department will allow students the opportunity to attempt a Major/Minor in Computer Science provided they take the Mathematical Thinking Foundation course and the Calculus Enabler course (in Semester 1) offered at Ashoka University. Students are required to pass the Mathematical Thinking Foundation course to pursue a Computer Science Major/Minor and to graduate with an undergraduate degree. The Computer Science Department requires that students take the Calculus Enabler course in Semester 1 and get a minimum grade of B for them to be considered.


Physics
Mathematics and Physics
The Department will allow students the opportunity to attempt a Major/Minor in Physics provided they take the Mathematical Thinking Foundation course and the Calculus Enabler course (in Semester 1) offered at Ashoka University. Students are required to pass the Mathematical Thinking Foundation course to pursue a Physics Major/Minor and to graduate with an undergraduate degree. The Physics Department requires that students take the Calculus Enabler course in Semester 1 and pass the course for them to be considered. Additionally, students should have also studied Physics in Grades XI and XII.



Please  to read Ashoka University’s policies on Mathematics courses offered by various educational boards.




















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






















































