Ashoka	University	Guidelines	on	Protecting	Freedom	of	Expression		1. Introduction	1.1	The	 central	 purposes	 of	 a	 University	 are	 the	 pursuit	 of	 truth,	 the	 discovery	 of	 new	knowledge	 through	 scholarship	 and	 research,	 the	 teaching	 and	 general	 development	 of	students,	and	the	transmission	of	knowledge	and	learning	to	society	at	large.	Free	inquiry	and	free	expression	within	the	University	community	are	indispensable	to	the	achievement	of	these	goals.	The	freedom	to	teach	and	to	learn	depends	upon	the	creation	of	appropriate	conditions	and	opportunities	not	only	in	classrooms	and	lecture	halls	but	also	on	the	campus	as	a	whole.		1.2	Since	rigid	codification	and	relentless	administration	of	rules	and	regulations	are	not	appropriate	 to	a	 University	community,	 the	guidelines	that	 follow	 serve	 mainly	 to	 clarify	commonly	accepted	standards	of	conduct	within	the	University.	The	University	community	referred	 to	 above	 consists	 of	 every	 person	 associated	 with	 the	 University,	 whether	 a	student,	faculty,	administrative	staff	or	other	employees	and	contractual	workers.		2. Scope	of	These	Guidelines	2.1	These	Guidelines	govern	the	conduct	of:	University	students,	regardless	of	enrolment	status;	faculty;	staff;	and	third	parties	to	the	extent	of	their	interaction	with	the	University	(i.e.,	 non-members	 of	 the	 University	 community,	 such	 as	 vendors,	 alumni/ae,	 visitors,	 or	local	residents).	2.2	Third	 parties	 are	 both	 protected	 by	 and	 subject	 to	 these	Guidelines.	 A	 third	 party	may	make	a	complaint	or	report	of	a	violation	of	these	Guidelines	committed	by	a	member	of	the	University	community.		2.3	These	Guidelines	apply	to	 conduct	 that	 occurs	 on	 University	 property	 (i.e.,	 on	campus)	 and	 also	 applies	 to	 conduct	 that	 occurs	 off	 University	 property	 (i.e.,	 off	 campus)	when	 the	 conduct	 is	 associated	 with	 a	 University-sponsored	 program	 or	 activity,	 such	 as	travel,	 research,	 or	 internship	 programs	 or	 when	 such	 conduct	 may	 have	 a	 continuing	adverse	 effect	 or	 could	 create	 a	 hostile	 environment	 on	 campus.	 Judgments	 about	 these	matters	will	depend	on	facts	of	an	individual	case.	2.4	These	Guidelines	also	apply	to	the	use	of	university	infrastructure.	3. Academic	Integrity	3.1	The	 ability	 of	 the	 University	 to	 achieve	 its	 purposes	 depends	 upon	 the	 quality	 and	integrity	 of	 the	 academic	 work	 that	 its	 faculty,	 staff,	 and	 students	 perform.	 Academic	freedom	 can	 flourish	 only	 in	 a	 community	 of	scholars	 that	recognizes	 that	 intellectual	integrity,	 with	 its	 accompanying	 rights	 and	 responsibilities,	 lies	 at	 the	 heart	 of	 its	 mission.	Observing	honesty	in	one's	work,	words,	and	actions	is	a	principle	to	which	all	members	of	the	community	are	required	to	subscribe.			4. Statement	on	Freedom	of	Expression	4.1	Because	 the	 University	 is	 committed	 to	 free	 and	 open	 inquiry	 in	 all	 matters,	 it	guarantees	 all	 members	 of	 the	 University	 community	 the	 broadest	 possible	 latitude	 to	speak,	write,	listen,	challenge,	and	learn.	Except	insofar	as	limitations	on	that	freedom	are	necessary	to	the	functioning	of	the	university,	as	detailed	in	section	4.2,	Ashoka	University	fully	 respects	 and	 supports	 the	 freedom	 of	 all	 members	 of	 the	 University	 community	 to	discuss	any	problem	that	presents	itself.	The	ideas	of	different	members	of	the	University	community	 will	 often	 and	 quite	 naturally	 conflict.	 But	 it	 is	 not	 the	 proper	 role	 of	 the	University	 to	 attempt	 to	 shield	 individuals	 from	 ideas	 and	 opinions	 they	 find	 unwelcome,	disagreeable,	or	even	deeply	offensive	except	when	it	violates	norms	of	mutual	respect	as	detailed	in	section	5.1.		4.2	The	 freedom	 to	 debate	 and	 discuss	 the	 merits	 of	 competing	 ideas	 does	 not,	 of	course,	 mean	 that	 individuals	 may	 say	 whatever	 they	 wish,	 wherever	 they	 wish.	 The	University	may	 restrict	 expression	 that	 violates	 the	law,	that	falsely	 defames	 a	 specific	individual,	that	constitutes	a	genuine	threat	of	or	incitement	to	violence	or	harassment,	or	that	 unjustifiably	 invades	 substantial	 privacy	 or	 confidentiality	 interests.	In	 addition,	 the	University	may	reasonably	regulate	the	time,	place,	and	manner	of	expression	to	ensure	that	it	does	not	disrupt	the	ordinary	activities	of	the	University.	But	these	are	narrow	exceptions	to	 the	 general	 principle	 of	 freedom	 of	 expression,	and	 it	is	 vitally	 important	 that	 these	exceptions	 never	 be	applied	in	 a	 manner	that	 is	 inconsistent	 with	 the	 University’s	commitment	to	a	completely	free	and	open	discussion	of	ideas.	4.3	In	a	word,	the	University’s	fundamental	commitment	is	to	the	principle	that	debate	or	deliberation	may	not	be	suppressed	because	the	ideas	put	forth	are	thought	by	some	or	even	 by	 most	 members	 of	 the	 University	 community	 to	 be	 offensive	 or	 immoral.	 Indeed,	fostering	the	ability	of	members	of	the	University	community	to	engage	in	such	debate	and	deliberation	in	an	effective	and	responsible	manner	is	an	essential	part	of	the	University’s	educational	mission.	4.4	As	 a	 corollary	 to	 the	 University’s	 commitment	 to	 protect	 and	 promote	 free	expression,	 members	 of	 the	 University	 community	must	 also	 act	 in	 conformity	 with	 the	principle	 of	 free	 expression.	 Although	 members	 of	 the	 University	 community	 are	 free	 to	criticize	and	contest	the	views	expressed	on	campus,	and	to	criticize	and	contest	speakers	who	 are	 invited	 to	 express	 their	 views	 on	campus,	 they	 may	 not	 obstruct	 or	 otherwise	interfere	with	the	freedom	of	others	to	express	views	they	reject	or	even	loathe.	To	this	end,	the	University	has	a	solemn	responsibility	not	only	to	promote	a	lively	and	fearless	freedom	of	debate	and	deliberation,	but	also	to	protect	that	freedom	when	others	attempt	to	restrict	it.	5. Respect	for	Others	5.1	As	an	intellectual	community,	Ashoka	attaches	great	value	to	freedom	of	expression	and	 vigorous	 debate,	 but	 it	 also	 attaches	 great	 importance	 to	 mutual	 respect,	 and	 it	deplores	 expressions	 of	 hatred	 directed	 against	 any	 individual	 or	 group.	Respect	 for	 the	rights	and	 sensibilities	 of	 each	 other	 is	 essential	 in	 preserving	 the	 spirit	 of	 community	 at	Ashoka.	Actions	 that	make	 the	 atmosphere	 intimidating,	 threatening,	 or	 hostile	 to	individuals	 are	 therefore	 regarded	 as	 serious	 offenses.	 Abusive	 or	 harassing	behaviour,	verbal	 or	 physical,	 which	 demeans,	 intimidates,	 threatens,	 or	 injures	 another	 because	 of	personal	 characteristics	 or	 beliefs	 or	 their	 expression,	may	 be	subject	 to	 University	disciplinary	procedure.	 Examples	 of	 personal	 characteristics	 or	 beliefs	 include	 but	 are	 not	limited	 to	 sex,	 sexual	 orientation,	 gender	 identity,	 race,	 ethnicity,	 national	 origin,	 religion,	and	disability.	The	University	calls	on	all	its	members	to	display	the	appropriate	sensitivity	and	to	challenge	expressions	of	racial,	gender	or	ethnic	bias	whenever	they	encounter	them.	6. Peaceful	Dissent,	Protests,	and	Demonstrations	6.1	Free	 speech	 and	 peaceable	 assembly	 are	 basic	 requirements	 of	 the	 University	 as	 a	centre	for	 free	 inquiry	 and	 the	 search	 for	 knowledge	 and	 insight.	 These	 rights	 involve	 a	concurrent	 obligation	 on	the	 part	 of	 all	 members	 of	 the	 University,	 guests,	 and	 visitors	 to	maintain	on	the	campus	an	atmosphere	conducive	to	scholarly	pursuits	and	to	respect	the	rights	of	all	individuals.	6.2	In	 view	 of	Ashoka's	 obligation	 to	 promote	 the	 free	 expression	 of	 all	views,	 the	campus	is	open	to	any	speaker	whom	students	or	members	of	the	faculty	have	invited	and	for	whom	official	arrangements	to	speak	have	been	made	with	the	University.	The	right	of	free	 speech	 in	 a	 university	 also	 includes	 the	 right	 to	 acts	 of	 peaceful	 dissent,	 protests	 in	peaceable	assembly,	orderly	demonstrations,	and	the	distribution	of	leaflets.		6.3	These	are	permitted	on	the	Ashoka	campus,	subject	to	approval	from	the	University	administration	as	 to	 schedule	 and	 location	only.	In	 asking	 groups	 and	 individuals	 to	 seek	prior	approval	for	schedule	and	location,	the	University's	goal	is	not	to	restrict	free	speech	or	peaceable	assembly.	Rather,	it	is	to	give	the	University	the	opportunity	to	provide	space	that	accommodates	the	reasonable	needs	of	both	the	University	community	and	those	engaged	in	acts	of	speech	or	protest.		6.4	The	University	reserves	the	right	to	determine	the	time,	place,	and	manner	of	all	such	activities.	Whenever	appropriate,	the	Office	the	VC	or	Pro-VC,	with	assistance	from	and	in	consultation	with	appropriate	departmental	heads,	will	designate	clearly	marked	areas	for	protests	and	demonstrations.	The	University	reserves	the	right	to	refuse	permission	to	use	a	particular	area	for	protests	or	demonstrations.		6.5	It	 is	 a	 violation	 of	 these	Guidelines	whenever	 any	 individual	 prevents,	 or	wilfully	attempts	 to	 prevent,	 the	 orderly	 conduct	 of	 a	 University	 function	 or	 activity,	 such	 as	lectures,	meetings,	interviews,	ceremonies,	and	public	events;	or	blocks,	or	wilfully	attempts	to	block,	the	legitimate	activities	of	any	person	on	the	campus	or	in	any	University	building	or	facility.	6.6	Whenever	 a	 member	 of	 the	 University	 community	violates	 these	Guidelines,	 that	individual	will	be	subject	to	University	discipline.	Decisions	to	invoke	University	disciplinary	action	in	the	course	of	a	protest	or	demonstration	will	be	made	after	due	warning	and	such	decisions	will	be	made	by	officers	of	the	University.	A	third	party	may	also	be	permanently	barred	from	the	University	or	subject	to	other	restrictions	for	failing	to	comply	with	these	Guidelines.		7. Political	Campaigning	7.1	Members	of	the	University	community,	as	individuals	and	groups,	have	the	right	to	exercise	 their	 freedom	 of	 expression	 and	 association.	 Under	 law,	 however,	 the	 University	may	not	"participate	in,	or	intervene	in	any	political	campaign	on	behalf	of	(or	in	opposition	to)	 any	 candidate	 for	 [any]	 public	 office"	 and	 "no	 substantial	 part	 of	 the	 activities"	 of	 the	University	 may	 be	 directed	 to	 influencing	 legislation.	 The	 University	 may	 not	 endorse,	 or	provide	or	solicit	financial	or	other	support	for,	candidates	or	political	organizations.		8. Ashoka	University	Name,	Marks,	and	Seal	8.1	No	individual	or	organization	may	use	the	University’s	name,	logos,	restricted	images,	or	 other	 identifiers	 (“marks”),	 or	 any	 marks	 that	 suggest	Ashoka	University	 or	 any	department,	school	or	centre	of	Ashoka	University	except	to	the	extent	such	individual	or	organization	 has	 been	 authorized	 by	 the	 proper	 University	 officials	 or	 as	 permitted	 under	trademark	 law.	The	 Pro-Vice	 Chancellor	 of	 the	 University	 is	 responsible	 for	 the	 general	oversight	and	administration	of	the	University’s	trademark	policies.		8.2	The	above	stipulation	shall	not	apply	to	an	academic	work	submitted	for	publication	by	 any	 person	 to	 whom	 these	 Guidelines	 apply,	 such	 as	 an	 article	 in	 a	 peer-reviewed	academic	journal,	an	independent	monograph,	or	as	part	of	a	collection	of	works.		8.3	Encouragement	of	an	interest	in	public	affairs	and	the	furtherance	of	a	sense	of	social	responsibility	have	long	been	considered	important	elements	of	a	liberal	arts	education.	The	University	 continues	 to	 consider	 self-chosen	 participation	 in	 political	 and	 social	 action	 by	individuals	 and	 groups	 to	 be	 a	 valuable	 part	 of	 the	 educational	 experience	 it	 seeks	 to	encourage.	 Such	 activities	 on	 the	 part	 of	 individuals	 or	 groups	 do	 not,	 and	 should	 not	 be	taken	to,	imply	commitment	of	the	University	to	any	partisan	political	position	or	point	of	view.	As	 such,	 for	 articles,	 opinion	 pieces,	 quotations,	and/or	 appearances	 in	 the	 popular	media	or	in	other	public	events	such	as	political,	social	or	religious	gatherings	or	organised	functions,	it	is	understood	that	the	views	held	by	the	author	or	participant	are	personal	and	not	those	of	the	university.		8.4	All	written	materials	that	take	the	form	of	petitions,	letters	of	protest,	or	declarations	should	have	prominent	disclaimers	as	headers	and	footers,	examples	of	which	follow	below:	“We	the	undersigned,	speaking	in	our	individual	capacity….”	“The	views	expressed	above	are	those	of	the	signatories	alone	and	do	not	reflect	those	of	Ashoka	University.”	8.5	The	use	of	the	seal	of	the	University	on	publications,	manufactured	articles,	and	the	like	 is	 prohibited,	 except	 when	 specifically	 authorized	 by	 the	 University.	 Applications	 for	such	authorization	must	be	made	to	the	Registrar	of	the	University.			9. Computer	and	Network	Use	9.1	Ashoka	University	makes	available	to	its	community	members	electronic	and	digital	data	 and	 network	 resources,	 including	 shared	 information	 technology	 resources	 that	 use	text,	 voice,	 images,	 and	 video	 to	 deliver	 information.	 These	 resources	 are	 to	 be	 used	 in	 a	manner	consistent	with	University	policy	and	the	law.	9.2	All	uses	of	the	University's	information	technology	and	network	resources	are	subject	to	 the	 regulations	 and	 policies	 set	 forth	 by	 the	University	 administration.	The	 IT	 policy	document	also	provides	information	regarding	copyright	and	other	laws	that	are	potentially	applicable	 to	 certain	 uses	 of	 the	 University's	 IT	 and	 digital	 resources	 and	 network	 access.	Members	of	the	University	community	are	expected	to	be	familiar	with	and	adhere	to	the	regulations	thus	defined.		Members	of	the	University	community	who	engage	in	any	illegal	or	 fraudulent	 use	 of	 the	 University's	 information	 technology	 resources,	 including	infringement	 of	 copyright-protected	 materials,	 may	 be	 subject	 to	 disciplinary	 action,	including	the	termination	or	suspension	of	network	privileges.		9.3	All	 actions	 by	 a	 member	 of	 the	 University	 community	 that	 involve	 the	 use	 of	 the	University’s	 computing	 and	 network	 resources	 from	 a	 remote	 location,	 including	 but	 not	limited	to	accessing	email	accounts,	will	be	deemed	to	have	occurred	on	campus.		9.4	Regulations	 governing	 use	 of	 the	 University's	 name	 and	 property	 and	 political	activities	 and	 community	 use	 of	 University	 resources	 also	 apply	 to	 use	 of	 the	 University's	information	technology	resources.	9.5	Members	 of	 the	 University	 community	 may	 not	 use	 University	 IT	 and	 network	resources	 for	 commercial	 (including	 consulting)	 purposes,	 unless	 they	 have	 received	permission	to	do	so	from	the	University	Administration;	rather,	they	should	use	information	technology	resources,	Internet	service	providers,	and	computer	hosts	outside	the	University.		