




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 
















































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 




















































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

























Intellectual Property Rights
Intellectual Policy Right document outlines the university’s policy towards:

 Publication of research outcomes in journals or at conferences or in the form of books,
Establishing ownership of IP created by its faculty, staff and students, or co-ownership in case research is sponsored by a third party or research is conducted in collaboration with researchers from another organization,
Licensing of, or transfer of, IP rights to third parties for commercialization and consequent sharing of revenue with co-inventors,
Dissemination and enforcement of IPR policy, including its reflection in employment contracts, in agreements concerning research grants or collaboration with other organization, or in contracts with vendors supplying goods and services to the university,
Academic recognition to faculty towards promotions or tenure decisions for generation of IP in the form of a patent, etc.
Establishing a university-wide committee to manage all aspects of IP, including generation, protection and licensing of IP, together with budgetary and administrative support needed therefore.


Overhead and Consultancy
 Indirect costs or institutional overhead costs represent the costs incurred by the university in supporting research by the PIs. Grant applications from Ashoka should include institutional overheads at a minimum of 15% or as per funding agency norms.  Research and Development Office  may undertake negotiations on overheads with funding agencies if required[A1] .
Consultancy projects require careful negotiations between the PI, Ashoka University, and the commissioning organisation to ensure safeguarding of university’s intellectual rights. RDO facilitates discussions on the terms of the agreement with client organisations on behalf of the university. RDO also undertakes due diligence on consultancy agreement drafts, working in conjunction with other internal teams, including the legal team and other offices as required.
 











An Institutional Review Board (IRB) comprises a committee that reviews and approves research involving human subjects. The purpose of the IRB is to ensure that all such research is conducted in accordance with legal, institutional, and professional ethical guidelines.





















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University























































