Created by: Manu Awasthi, Johannes Burgers, Anup Padmanabhan, Anisha Sharma, Gaurav Bhatnagar, Mahavir Jhawar, Srinath Raghavan 
and Swargajyoti Gohain       Version 2.1 Last Update: 06/08/2020 Overview 
In light of the shift to rem ote teaching, this committee has been charged by the Vice -Chancellor t o compile 
a rep ort on current remote teaching pedag ogies that might be useful to the fa culty. This d ocument is meant 
to fun ction as a res ource, and in its sub-se ctions we ha ve tried to anti cipate the different kinds of resources 
that might be helpful f or specific teaching situations. There is ne cessarily s ome cross -over between teaching 
conte xts, and, on occasi on, res ources may be repeated .1  
Reso urce Dis clai mer 
Resources are pr ovided f or inf ormati on purp oses only , we do n ot end orse any of the pr odu cts and 
encourage individual fa culty to try out things that w ork best f or them. When p ossible the utility of these 
tools was vetted, but a comprehensive audit of any security or privacy vulnerabilities was n ot performed. 
As with all digital t ools, there is the p ossibility that the s oftware d oes n ot handle the privacy of student data 
properly, is n ot accessible to all students, and/or can be mali ciously expl oited by bad a ctors. Please use 
cauti on when using any digital medium to transfer sensiti ve inf ormati on su ch as student assessments. 
Note on Versioning 
This is a living do cument and will be updated from time to time. To see the most recent version, use the
link below: 
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eOQZ4l YVVybyG40YgqPltniedyguPjuuqKUSswvmb7Q/edit?usp=
sharing 
1 This guide was compiled from an aggregated and growing master list of resources being shared by an informal consortium Centers 
of Excellence in Teaching and Learning available here: 
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VT9oiNYPyiEsGHBoDKlwLlWAsWP58sGV7A3oIuEUG3k/htmlview?usp=sharing&urp=gm
ail_link  
2Table of Contents 
1.Getting Started
○ Setting up y our classroom space
■ Generic Background
■ Find a comfortable seat and position
■ Set up proper lighting
■ Adjust Webcam Height
■ Setting Up Proper Acoustics
○ Remote Meeting Norms
2.Basic Classroom  Managem ent
3.Accessibility  and Rem ote Learning
4.T eaching Modalities: Sy nchronous vs. Asy nchronous Learning
○ Sy nchronous and Asy nchronous Online Pedagogies
■ Overview: Defining Small, Medium, and Large Classrooms in an Online
Environment
○ Sy nchronous Pedagogies
■ Overview
■ Small Classrooms (Participants < 25)
1. Small Breakout Sessions
2. Guided discussion using Share Screen or shared document
3. Moderated discussion using chat
4. Discussion based on snap polls
5. Interactive Whiteboards
■ Medium Classrooms (25 < Participants < 50)
1. Medium breakout sessions
■ Large Classrooms (50 < Participants)
1. Lectures with Interactive Quizzes
○ Asy nchronous Pedagogies
■ Overview
■ Medium Classrooms (25 < Participants < 50)
1. Pre-recorded materials by  students
■ Large Classrooms (50 < Participants)
1. Pre-Recorded Lectures
2. Discussion Board
3. Annotated Slides
4. Links to external sources
5. Exam ination and Grading
○ Overview: Low Stakes and High Stakes Assignments
■ Low Stakes Assignments
1. Automated Quizzes
■ High Stakes Assignments
1. Exams
○ Modified Take Home Exams
○ Take Home Exams and Academic Dishonesty
6.Laboratory  Courses
7. Office Hours
8.Academ ic Integrity
9.Student Recom m endations
3Setting up your classroom space 
Generic Background 
It is important to set up a space that you feel will be uninterrupted for the duration of the 
class. Ideally, your webcam is pointed to a wall where there is little possibility of 
something happening in the background. If this is not possible, y ou can recreate this effect 
by hanging up a plain, thick white bedsheet. Limiting the space behind you will also help 
with the lighting auto-brightness. 
Find a comfortable seat and position 
You will be sitting for a long time, especially for multiple classes per day. It can be hard 
to concrete on teaching if you are uncomfortable. Get in a comfortable position first, and 
then set up the lighting, webcam and audio to accommodate you. 
Set up proper lighting 
Webcams can be remarkably 
unflattering, and a big part of 
appearing properly on camera is 
setting up the right lighting. 
Lighting from the back will darken 
your face. Lighting from only 
overhead lights tends to make you 
appear spectral. Inconsistent 
lighting, such as from a window, 
will cause the auto-brightness on 
your webcam to fluctuate. Soft, 
indirect lighting from the front, as 
depicted in the image on the right, 
works best. If lighting is a problem, 
ring-lights are relatively 
inexpensive and can go a long way in creating a better image. 
Adjust Webcam Height 
Having the webcam at an odd angle can distort how you can come across on video. Place 
the camera at eye level at eye level or slightly higher. Avoid angling the camera up from 
below your eye level. Place the camera far enough away that you can frame yourself in the 
middle of the image. If you were to split up the screen into thirds, your eyes should 
intersect with or be slightly below the line for the top third. See the figures below for an 
example. 
Figure 1 : Ideal lighting for a webcam session. Soft, indirect lighting 
from the front w orks best. Source:
5Setting Up Proper Acoustics 
Virtual meeting software like Google Meet and Zoom have integrated features that help 
eliminate background noise and eliminate volume levels. These features are not perfect, 
and you can do a lot to help the acoustics of your call.  
The microphone will pick up sounds in the background that can cause distortion in the 
feed. Eliminating this as much as possible will help keep the audio clear. Depending on 
your particular situation, having multiple auditory focal points will amplify some noises 
and reduce your own voice. The sound of a fan or air conditioner running can cause 
consistent background noise. 
Using headphones with an integrated microphone, can considerably improve the audio 
quality for you and your students. 
Figure 2 : The webcam should be at eye level or slightly 
higher. Source:
Figure 3 : Your face should take up roughly the middle third of the 
frame. Source: https://www.labortools.com/hubfs/FramingThirds.jpg
6Remote Meeting Norms  
General 
●All participants are encouraged to resolve technical issues before the meeting.
Everyone should make sure that they have checked the video, microphone, and
audio before joining the session. When possible, have a trial session with the
technology before the first formal session.
●Be on time. Like an in-person meeting, showing up late can be distracting. Login
to the meeting several minutes before it starts, in order to make sure you are
there from the beginning.
●Please mute your microphone when you are not speaking. This keeps the
background noise levels to a minimum, and helps every listener have a good
experience.
➢Tip: To quickly mute your microphone use the keyboard shortcut:
Google Meet      Zoom  
Windows  Ctrl + d    Alt + a  
Mac  Cmd + d     Alt + a  
●You are encouraged to keep your video turned on. It is hard for speakers to
address someone they cannot see, and having a visual response from the
audience makes speaking in a virtual meeting easier for everyone. If you are
having bandwidth issues, turning off the video will help.
●Remote learning emulates a classroom as much as possible. This is best achieved
when all participants are present, focused, and contribute as if they were in an in-
class meeting.
●Please remember that the chat is a group chat. Whatever you type in there will be
visible to the instructor, as well as everyone else in the meeting. Note that making
comments not directly related to the course content is distracting to other
students.
Asking questions 
Each instructor will establish a protocol for asking questions. Some of these include: 
●Raising your hand
● Using a “reaction” button in meeting
●Writing in the chat box
Whatever the operational protocol, it is best for participants to wait until there is an 
acknowledgement by the instructor. Virtual meetings can be hard to follow when 
multiple people are speaking, and it is most efficient to contribute on a turn-based 
system. 
Other 
There is always a chance the technology fails or there is another issue with online 
instruction. Since time for the virtual meeting is very limited, it is best to address any 
issues outside of these hours
7Virtual Meeting Software  
In the summer of 2020, Ashoka decided to standardize its remote learning offerings. 
Currently, there is robust support for Google Classroom and its virtual meeting software 
Google Meet. For most use cases, Google Meet suits the requirements for a virtual class 
session. There are a limited number of Zoom licenses available to faculty who prefer to 
conduct their classes over Zoom. Faculty are encouraged to use these pieces of software 
because there will be a substantial institutional knowledge base regarding their feature 
set and useability.  
Attendance 
Attendance is both simple and challenging to manage in a virtual classroom. There is 
software available to automatically document attendance, but it is harder to determine 
who is actually physically present and paying attention during the session. It is a given 
that various technical problems could arise. 
The chrome extension “Meet Attendance”  lets you take attendance during a live Google 
meet session. 
Closed Captioning and Transcription 
Google Meet allows any user in the session to turn on Closed Captioning for better 
intelligibility of the session. These captions are saved in the recording session, but not as 
a separate text file. If you would like to offer students the text transcript of the session this 
can be done through the Google Chrome extension: taqtic.io 
It is a good practice to save the transcript of your sessions for extra accessibility for 
students who were not able to attend the session. 
Recording Sessions 
Recording class sessions so they are available to students who were not able to attend is 
highly recommended. However, there may be scenarios where recording class sessions is 
not desirable. For example, if the course discusses personally sensitive topics recording it 
might stifle conversation. The default is that students assume they are being recorded. If 
the session is not being recorded it might be useful to let them know in advance. 
Recording Storage and Security 
In synchronous sessions, if you record your live lectures using Google Meet then they are 
available in the “Meeting folder” i n your Google drive. You can share these videos under 
the  “classwork” tab in Classroom.  
Any textual, auditory or visual material in which students are identifiable may not be 
shared outside of the classroom without the express permission of the students depicted. 
Likewise, students may not distribute classroom recordings to any third parties. 
9Making courses accessible for students with disabilities and English Language Learner 
issues benefits all students. In this respect, accessible course design offers a good set of 
design principles for course design more generally, and is often included under the larger 
umbrella of  universal design for learning  because it considers all possible users. 
Making course material accessible 
Planning for accessibility doesn’t automatically mean creating multiple versions or 
discarding activities, assignments, content up-front because it could be inaccessible for 
certain students. It means having thought through what you would do if a student for 
whom that activity was inaccessible registered for your class.2 
The OLS recommends that the reading material be distributed in an accessible format 
such as Word or a Searchable PDF. Generally, accessible documents are first produced in 
Word, converted to PDF and then checked for accessibility . You may also refer to the more 
detailed presentation: Building Accessibility into Online Teaching and Learning . 
Making online lectures accessible 
Provide access to the lectures, synchronous or asynchronous, by using both the modalities 
–audio and visual. Invest in the technology that integrates both.
Audio to Visual 
During lectures, the speech (audio) needs to be made available as a text to integrate the 
visual modality. Use technology tools that provide: 
●Closed Captioning/ Subtitles
●Post-Production (recording) Transcription
●Live Transcription
Google Meet has built-in Closed Captioning software. Tactiq.io creates free transcripts of 
these files and saves them in your Google Drive. 
➢See:  https://tactiq.io
For free/paid Live Transcription in Zoom classes 
➢See: Otter.ai Live Notes for Zoom
Visual to Audio  
During lectures, the visuals, text and images, need to be made available as speech to 
integrate the audio modality. During the lecture, the text and images can be read aloud or 
explained and also shared with the students (with blindness) before class so that they can 
access them with their screen reader. Students with disabilities and English Language 
Learners have access to assistive technology resources on their own devices for the same. 
Contact Office of Learning Support at ols@ashoka.edu.in  for further details.
2 https://canvas.ucdavis.edu/courses/34528/pages/accessibility- for-online-courses 
10Teaching Modalities: Synchronous vs. Asynchronous Learning3 
There are two options for instructors to facilitate class sessions remotely: 
● Synchronous : instructors and students gather at the same time and interact in
“real time” with a very short or “near -real time” exchange between instructors and
students.
● Asynchronous: instructors prepare course materials for students in advance of
students’ access. Students may access the course materials at a time of their
choosing.
Instructors may choose to engage their students synchronously or asynchronously 
depending on the course content or material that needs to be taught. There are distinct 
advantages and disadvantages to asynchronous and synchronous teaching options. 
Synchronous Teaching  Asynchronous Teaching  
Advantages  ❏Immediate personal
engagement between students
and instructors, which may
create greate r feelings of
community and reduce feelings
of isolation.
❏More responsive exchanges
between students and
instructors, which may prevent
miscommunication or
misunderstanding.❏More scheduling flexibility,
which may simultaneously
make the learning experience s
more accessible to different
students.
❏Creates an archive of past
materials that can be
redeployed in future iterations
of the course.
❏Students can control the pace
of learning to a speed that is
appropriate to them.
Disadvanta
ges ❏More challenging to schedule
shared times for all students
and instructors.
❏Some students may not be fully
comfortable using the
technology, or be
disadvantaged by the
limitations of their digital
affordances.❏Students may feel less
personally invested, and less
satisfied wi thout the social
interaction between their peers
and instructors.
❏Course material may be
misunderstood or have the
potential to be misconstrued
without the real -time
interaction.
3 Teaching and Learning Center. “Faculty Resources for Remote Teaching and Learning.” Rider University. Last access date: 
03/04/2020. URL: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Nd-wnQuhQ6qqMl-
R6QGNcZKw1cWOt1BBab9VcWECpEA/edit?ts=5e875798#heading=h.51dvbfupqxsh   
12Overview: Defining Small, Medium, and Large Classrooms in an Online 
Environment 
In an online environment, class size is a significant determinant of the possible forms of 
classroom engagement. Generally, smaller classes tend to lend themselves to 
synchronous activities, while larger classes might be more manageable with 
asynchro nous modalities. What constitutes a “small,” “medium,” or “large,” classroom is 
to some extent framed by the limits of the technology.4 The chart below provides a guide 
to possible activities based on classroom size. Though these will necessarily vary by 
discipline and specific course material. 
Type  Participants  User Experience  Classroom Activity  
Small  Participants < 
25 Depending on device 
screen size and 
resolution, it is generally 
possible to see all 
participants in a Meet 
session simultaneously 
on one screen.  Synchronous  
❏Small breakout
session with Zoom
“rooms”
❏Guided discussion
using Share Screen or
shared document  
❏Moderated chat
discussion
❏Snap polls
❏Interactive
Whiteboard
Medium  25 < 
Participants < 50 It is not possible to see 
all participants 
simultaneously, or only 
with a dual monitor 
setup. Faculty will have 
to actively look at who 
may be participating in 
the class.  Synchronous  
❏Medium breakout
sessions with Zoom
“rooms”
❏Moderated chat
discussion
❏Snap polls
Asynchron ous 
❏Pre-recorded
materials by students
❏Short pre -recorded
videos by the
instructor
Large 50 < Participants  Google Meet allows for 
250 participants and 
Zoom can handle 100, Synchronous  
❏Snap  polls
❏Interactive quizzes
4 The upper limits for the number of participants in Google Meet is 250 and Zoom is 100. 
14but the ma jority will not 
be visible throughout 
the session.  
The current cap on the 
gallery size in Google 
Meet  is 16.  
The Chrome extension 
Grid  View , increases the 
number of visible 
participants to 100.  Asynchronous  
❏Pre-recorded lectures
❏Discussion board
❏Integrated quizzes
❏Annotated slides
❏Links to external
sources
Synchronous Pedagogies 
Overview 
Due to some of the technical limitations of online sessions, synchronous sessions tend to 
work best with smaller classes. With some modification, many of these pedagogies could 
equally well be applied to larger classes. 
Small Classrooms (Participants < 25)  
Small Breakout Sessions 
In Zoom it is possible to split the online class into “rooms.” Zoom has the option to do this 
automatically through randomization, or by manually allocating specific students into 
specific groups. Once c reated, it is possible for the instructor to “float” between rooms 
and check in on the discussion. This model allows faculty to check in with students on a 
more personal basis.  
➢See: Zoom Managing Video Breakout Rooms .
➢Google Meet does not have this capability yet, but there are multiple plug-
ins. One workaround can be found here , but it requires some planning and
cannot be done “on the fly.”
Guided discussion using Share Screen or shared document  
Provide readings for a class beforehand, assign one or two students as lead discussants 
for the paper/reading. The leads are meant to lead the discussion on the reading, possibly 
by preparing a minimal set of slides, if that works for the course/material. The instructor 
can then supplement the presentation at key points, and engage the rest of the class by 
asking pertinent questions.  
➢See: Zoom Share Screen Google Meet Share Screen  
➢
Moderated discussion using chat 
Not every student may be able to participate in a virtual classroom setting due to either 
technological or dispositional factors. In such cases, it is still possible for them to 
participate through the chat features of both Zoom and Google Meet.  
15❏Possibility 1: Instructor posts question in the chat or shares it on the screen.
Students respond to the question in their chat box, and this prompts further
discussion.
❏Possibility 2: Instructor designates one student to moderate the discussion.
Students who cannot actively participate in the video chat can still listen and
respond and interact through the chat.
➢See: Zoom In-Meeting Chat
        Google Meet In-Meeting Chat  
Discussion based on snap polls 
Snap polls are a quick way to gauge students’ surface -level understanding of a core 
concept. Ranging from true/false to multip le-choice, questions can be deployed directly 
during a Zoom session. A discrepancy in answers can solicit a point of clarification.  
➢ See Pollings for Meetings
Google Meet does not have native polling abilities, but there are various add-ons that 
achieve a similar effect.  
➢See: Polls for Google Hangouts Chat
Other options: 
➢See: Poll Everywhere  Polls
Interactive Whiteboards  
Interactive whiteboards allow students to post into one collective space in real time. There 
are multiple ways of doing this, but the basic point is that students can brainstorm ideas 
and suggestions. 
Name  Website  Tool  Cost  Features  
Wakelet  www.wakelet.com  Allows students to 
share materials to a 
board in real time  Basic is free  
Google 
Docs/Shee
ts/Slides  https://www.google.c
om/docs/about/  Lets students 
collaborate in real 
time on a shared 
document  Free  Can see who does what on 
collaborative projects, never 
lose work (auto saves and can 
see ear lier drafts), can 
hyperlink all needed 
resources on one set of 
slides/document  
One of the challenges with interactive whiteboards is that the standard input device for a 
computer is a mouse or trackpad. These are very difficult to work with for any length of 
time. For more sustained usage of an interactive whiteboard there are a number of devices 
available.  
16Recommended:  
●WACOM One by CTL-672/K0-CX Medium 8.5-inch x 5.3-inch Graphic Tablet
●A stylus and pad input device that works with multiple pieces of software. Price
around ₹8,000
●IT is currently looking into requisitioning some devices for special cases. Please
check to see if they are available.
Other tablet devices that are compatible with a stylus also work, but these are more 
expensive and the setup is more involved. 
Working with Interactive Whiteboarding Google Meet 
Whiteboard support (Non-collaborative)  
1.Use https://canvas.apps.chrome/  for whiteboard support.
2.Present the tab (where the Canvas is open) in the Google meet to students.
Whiteboard Support (Collaborative) 
1.Use https://jamboard.google.com/   for whiteboard support.
2.Present the tab (where the jamboard is open) in the Google meet to students.
3.Also create a shareable link of the Jamboard and paste it on the Chat window of
Google meet
4.Both you and students can write and see the same Jamboard
Working with Interactive Whiteboarding Zoom  
➢See: Using annotation tools on a shared screen or whiteboard
Setting up a Whiteboard session without a dedicated  input device 
The instructor can join the Google/Zoom Meeting from two devices, simultaneously, say 
a laptop and a tablet. The latter has to (1) be capable of screen sharing, and (2) support a 
stylus (e.g. Apple Pencil) that allows the instructor to write on the tablet. The instructor 
can share the tablet’s screen, w hich doubles up as the whiteboard. The other device 
(laptop) can be used for sharing the instructor's video, and/or monitoring chat messages 
with student queries.  
Medium Classrooms (25 < Participants < 50) 
Medium breakout sessions  
Medium breakout sessio ns with Zoom “rooms”. Here the same principle as the “small” 
breakout session applies. The difference is that the groups might grow to become 
inordinately large. A possible solution is to deputize a more advanced student to lead the 
discussion, and report out upon the completion of the specified task. 
➢See Zoom Managing Video Breakout Rooms .
17 Large Classrooms (50 < Participants) 
Lectures with Interactive Quizzes 
It is possible to create slideshows and other lecture materials that incorporate interactive 
quizzes. In some cases, these can be deployed live, in other modalities they can be used 
for pre-recorded material. The quizzes are a way to assess real-time understanding of the 
covered materials.  
In Google Meet quizzes can be deployed using Google Forms. The score on the quiz is 
automatically imported into the Classroom Gradebook. 
➢Instructional video: Coming Soon
Interactive quizzes can also be created with Camtasia. This process is substantially more 
involved and the grades will not export to Google Classroom automatically. The advantage 
is that the video and the quiz can be deployed in an asynchronous environment. 
Asynchronous Pedagogies  
Overview 
Not all learning needs to happen within the confines of the allotted meeting slots, and it 
may be more beneficial for the instructor and the student to re-think the structure of the 
course in a remote learning environment. These pedagogies are particularly useful when 
managing a large class. 
Medium Classrooms (25 < Participants < 50) 
Pre-recorded materials by students  
Students can “teach” a particular component of the class by preparing a video 
presentation in advance of the lecture. Given the constraints of synchronous online 
communication, this might be a good way to circumvent bandwidth requirements for 
large classes. There are several collaborative software options available for students to put 
together the video. The most straightforward way is to encourage students to schedule a 
Zoom or a Meet session and then record themselves.  
➢See: Zoom
       Meet 
Quicktime  (Mac only) 
Large Classrooms (50 < Participants)  
Pre-Recorded Lectures 
For large classes, discussion may not be an option. There are several ways in which 
lectures can be pre- recorded and sent to students. It may not be necessary to create one 
lecture in its entirety, which can be both time consuming and not very engaging for 
students. Instead, breaking up long lectures into several shorter topic-based sections may 
be a more optimal option.  
18If you are creating a pre-recorded lecture in a short time frame, consider a few simple 
tips.5 
❏Provide an explicit roadmap at the beginning.
❏Break down the lecture into shorter segments. A long pre-recorded lecture can be
deadly boring to watch.
❏Intersperse the lecture clips with reflection questions for the students to consider.
Try to make the learning experience “inductive” rather than entirely didactic.
❏Speak to the student, not to the camera.
❏Insert yourself – a personal story, humor, or editorial commentary – into the
lecture.
You don’t need to pre -record the entire lecture. Instead, you can pre-record certain 
segments of your lecture, such as material you want the students to reflect on before class, 
and leave the rest to the in-class session. Pre- recording and live needn’t be substitutes; 
they can serve as powerful complements too. 
Accessibility tips when recording videos:6 
❏Enable Closed Captioning in Google Meet for videos.
❏Keep recordings under 10 minutes.
❏Verbally describe any images or props you show in the video or include textual
descriptions below the video.
Adding Interactivity 
It is possible to integrate quizzes in a video lecture using Camtasia. This process is time 
consuming on the front end, but once created the video and questions can be reused in 
subsequent semesters. 
Another option is to upload lecture videos to YouTube and then embed those videos in a 
Google Quiz. Students watch part of the lecture, and subsequently answer questions. 
Although visually clunkier, this has the added advantage of directly exporting the quiz 
score to Google Classroom.  
➢See: Creating interactive quizzes with Google Forms
Suggested Tools: 
➢See: Camtasia
       How to Record your Lecture with PowerPoint in Zoom  
       Google Meet 
5 “Best Practices: Online Pedagogy,” accessed April 4, 2020, https://teachremotely.harvard.edu/best- practices . 
6 Cornell Resource Library. “Getting Started with Panopto.” Cornell University, accessed: 03/04/2020. URL: 
https://canvas.cornell.edu/courses/1848/pages/getting- started- in-panopto  
19Discussion Board7 
To remove technical hurdles and to ensure that students are able to engage with peers 
and each other in a discussion-based class, you might choose to move student discussion 
to an asynchronous format. Create a discussion forum to facilitate communication, 
encourage students to interact, ask questions and respond to discussion prompts. 
Pedagogical recommendations: 
➢Craft discussion questions to be as clear and as specific as possible so that students
can build off of the question for a sustained response.
○See Stanford TeachingCommons’ “Designing Effective Discussion
Questions”
○See “Conversation Starters: Orchestrating Asynchronous Discussion to
Build Academic Community among First- Year Writers” by Dan Seward
➢Assign roles to students so that they understand when and how they might respond
to you or their peers. For example, students might “role play” as particular kinds
of respondents or you might ask them to do particular tasks (e.g. be a summarizer,
a respondent, a connector with outside resources).
Google Classroom will allow you to create discussion questions for students, and 
moderate the discussion in various ways. Responses to the discussion questions 
can also be graded and automatically recorded in Classroom’s gradebook.  
➢See: Create a discussion question in Google Classroom
Annotated Slides  
Pre-recording lectures can be very labor intensive. To simplify matters, one can also send 
the slide deck w ith notes. This “low -tech” solution is actually beneficial to students who 
have bandwidth issues and cannot watch the lectures in real-time or as a recording. For 
some students this is actually an easier way to learn than listening.  
Links to external sources  
Although never a replacement for your own teaching, there is a wealth of learning material 
available online. Some core concepts in your discipline may have been covered by other 
educators. It does not always make sense to reinvent the wheel, especially when faced 
with a time crunch. 
➢See: Jove
ibiology  
7 Cohn, Jenae and Beth Seltzer, “Teaching Effectively During Times of Disruption,” Google Docs, accessed April 5, 2020, 
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ccsudB2vwZ_GJYoKlFzGbtnmftGcXwCIwxzf- jkkoCU/preview?usp=embed_facebook . 
20Overview: Low Stakes and High Stakes Assignments 
In Engaging Ideas , John Bean broadly defines two types of assessment in the classroom: 
low-stakes and high-stakes.8 Low-stakes are weighted lower percentage-wise, but are 
more frequent and informal, high-stakes assignments are weighted higher but more 
infrequent. Both types of assignments are valuable measures of student engagement and 
learning. In a remote setting, there may be a need for more frequent “low -stakes” 
assignments to encourage student engagement. Meanwhile, “high -stakes” assignments 
are a valuable way to assess student mastery of content, but, given the online setting, are 
more susceptible to academic dishonesty. 
Low Stakes Assignments  
Entry Slips/Exit Slips  
Before the start of class students come up with a critical question about the material they 
were meant to prepare for that day. At the end of the session they make clear what they 
learned and how they would answer the question they posed. A very simple grading 
scheme of check+, check, check-, or 3, 2, 1 can make grading these relatively quick, while 
at the same time gauging student participation. 
Automated Quizzes  
This could be done through mechanisms like the Quiz feature of Google Classrooms. The 
instructors can prepare quizzes based on the material covered every week. There are a 
range of possible quiz question types, including: short answer, long answer, multiple 
choice, multiple select, and more complex question types. 
High Stakes Assignments 
Exams 
Generally proctoring exams in an online environment is very challenging. The level of 
student surveillance required to make sure there is no academic dishonesty during 
synchronous exams, also enhances the chances of technical problems for students. Even 
with a high level of surveillance, it is not possible to guarantee that students will not 
engage in academic dishonesty. If there is no other way to do the assessment for a course 
special arrangements can be made with IT for online synchronous proctoring.  
Modified Take Home Exams 
Depending on the course being offered, instructors can decide to offer take home exams, 
which could be “open book” and “open internet.” The idea is to create a set of questions 
that help students provide logical arguments, or design choices for the possibly open-
ended set of questions being posed to them. The exam can be posted on Google Classroom 
and made available at a specific date and time. The various question types available in the 
8 Bean, John C. Engaging Ideas: The Professor's Guide to Integrating Writing, Critical Thinking, and Active Learning in the Classroom . 
The Jossey-Bass Higher and Adult Education Series. 2nd ed. San Francisco: Jossey- Bass, 2011.  
22Google Classroom Quiz feature, should be able to cover most exam types. Otherwise, 
students can also submit a file as their response. 
Take Home Exams and Academic Dishonesty 
The possibility of illicit or collaborative exploitation of intellectual resources is 
particularly high with regard to take-home exams. There is no way to guarantee that a 
student does not consult unsanctioned resources. There are several ways to mitigate the 
possibility or make it less desirable: 
Fixed time window:  Deploying and receiving the exam in a specific window of 
time prevents the possibility of collaboration and other forms of academic 
dishonesty. Google Classroom will allow you to regulate when the exam is posted 
and lock when the exam can be received. Note that students have expressed that 
this method can be quite stressful, because if there is a power outage or another 
technical issue it could prevent them from turning in the exam on time. 
Similarity check: Google Classroom now has an integrated similarity check that 
can be used for exams. Alternatively, exams can be passed through Turnitin to 
check whether students directly copied answers. 
➢See: Best Practices for Online Exam Design - Pepperdine University
23Unlike theory-based courses, practical courses are generally of longer durations and 
require specialized infrastructure support. In addition to this, moving practical courses 
online results in students taking more time to become familiar with the learning material, 
internalize how(s) and why(s) of each step in the practical and critically analyse the 
concepts presented. Their peer-learning ecosystem is also disrupted. Therefore online 
teaching/learning of such courses may not provide the desired result and learning 
experience. However, some of the suggestions below may be helpful, to a certain extent, 
in learning the subject matter and building relevant and useful skill(s)-set : 
1.Re-organizing of the order of courses between monsoon and spring
semester.
➢Lab courses scheduled in monsoon 2020 may be shifted (postponed) to
spring 2021, and replacement theory based courses scheduled in spring
2021 may be brought forward to be taught in the monsoon 2020 semester.
2.In case reorganization of courses as mentioned in #1 (above) is not
possible, the course coordinators may consider,
a.Re-evaluate learning objectives and outcomes  by re-designing
the course curriculum to incorporate in-silico
experiments/demonstrations and/or analysis of data obtained from
these experiments/demonstrations..
b.Livestream / Recorded demonstrations of the laboratory
experiments
The course coordinators and/or instructional support staff may
demonstrate the experiments in the lab and choose to stream the
experiment demonstration live (synchronous) or record pictures/ videos
of different parts of the experiments (asynchronous). The gathered data
could be shared with the students to analyse and make observations. If
possible, the students may be allowed to perform these experiments
upon their return to the campus.
c.Virtual Labs
There are a number of ways (listed below) that allow students to
approximate laboratory experience through active participation rather
than passive observation, virtually. Most of the virtual labs listed in the
link below are extremely discipline specific and there is a significant
range in quality, but might offer a temporary stopgap, until the
students return to the campus:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18iVSIeOqKjj58xcR8dYJS5r
YvzZ4X1UGLWhl3brRzCM/htmlview
25Office Hours 
Meeting students outside of class hours can be a challenge. Although it is possible to 
schedule a running Google Meet for office hours and propagate it in the course calendar, 
there is no way to anticipate who will show up, or to establish a queue for students. One 
efficient way to schedule office hours is through the scheduling software Calendly . You 
can create meeting slots for your students who can then sign up. If a student signs up, it 
will place that meeting on your Google calendar, and block the slot for other students. You 
can also change your availability on the calendar, so you never need to inform students of 
when your office hours are, just give them the link. 
➢See: Connect Calendly to Zoom
27Academic Integrity 
The remote learning environment brings with it a different set of challenges with regard 
to academic integrity. Fortunately, many of the core principles that help prevent academic 
dishonesty in an in-person classroom also apply to a virtual classroom. In general, it is 
better to prevent academic dishonesty through assignment design and deployment than 
through punitive means after the fact.9 
1.Ask open-ended critical questions that require unique answers.
2.Scaffold large assignments into smaller parts that help you track student progress ,
and reduce the chance of plagiarism.
3.Students are more likely to commit academic dishonesty on a singular high-stakes
assignment than several low-stakes assignments cumulatively worth the same
weight. Spreading assignments out over the course of the semester can lower
student anxiety, and reduce the need to resort to getting non-sanctioned support
for an assignment.
4.Academic dishonesty is not the same in every course or even for every assignment.
Be explicit as to what resources students can use to complete their assignment.
May they consult old exams? Work with fellow students on a paper? Work with
material they wrote for a previous class? Clarifying what constitutes academic
dishonesty for a specific assignment can prevent misunderstandings.
5.Students are less likely to cheat when the scope and requirements for an
assignment are clear.
6.Explicitly stating that you use plagiarism prevention software, and demonstrating
the software can act as a strong deterrent.
7.Reminding students of the Academic Integrity policy and the consequences of
committing a violation has been shown to reduce cheating.
8.Allowing students to signal in their paper when they are uncertain about how to
use a source can create a productive learning moment.
9 Some of the language here has been adapted from the site on Remote Learning and Academic Integrity created by the 
Library and Technology services department at Lehigh University. “Remote Learning and Academic Integrity | Library & 
Technology Services.” Accessed August 4, 2020.  https://lts.lehigh.edu/remote-learning-and-academic-integrity . 
29Student Recommendations  
The recommendations below have been collated by the student representatives from all 
departments. They offer an overview of the most pressing concerns for students, and 
practices they have found successfully address those concerns. 
Attendance Policy for Synchronous Learning  
Issues:  
(i) Students might have varied household conditions, and may not be able to adhere to
attendance requirements.
(ii) Technical issues can also be an obstacle for class attendance.
(iii) International students might not be able to join synchronous classes.
Solution: 
(i) Owing to difficult circumstances, students found it really helpful when professors
clearly delineated what constituted an excused and an unexcused absence, and the
number allowed for each course.
(ii) One particularly productive way in which one professor dealt with students not being
able to attend synchronous sessions was by creating optional assignments that counted
towards attendance.
High Stakes and Low Stakes Assignments  
Issues: 
(i) It is more difficult to properly schedule time for doing assignments at home. Both
because students may have household commitments to attend to, and because they may
get too much screen time in one day. Scheduling becomes even more challenging when
high stakes and low stakes assignments are not properly defined at the beginning of the
semester.
(ii) For courses following a Midterm-Final paper/exam format, the lack of low-stakes
assignments adds more pressure on students who may not be able to perform evenly on
exams/final papers due to personal or technical reasons.
(iii) It becomes challenging for students to complete high-stakes assignments without
access to the required resources, such as books, scholarly articles, and other research
materials.
(iv) Since almost all of the course content is now digital, it has become more difficult for
students to keep up with the readings due to screen fatigue.
Solution: 
(i) Students are better able to organize their time when the high and low stake
assignments are clearly defined at the start of the semester for every course.
(ii) For courses following a Midterm-Final paper/exam format, more low-stakes
assignments provide more opportunities for students to properly showcase their
knowledge than a high pressure situation like an exam of final paper.
(iii) All resources for high-stakes assignments should be provided beforehand, for
example, in a shared google drive folder for the class. For assignments where this is not
31possible, grading curves should be cognizant of any uneven resource distribution among 
students. 
(iv) Students found it more effective to do several short readings, as opposed to one very
long reading that causes screen fatigue.
Procedure for Remote Examinations 
Issues: 
(i) Households do not provide the same composed and undisturbed setup as classrooms
in terms of taking examinations, leading to an inability to focus.
(ii) Unexpected technical issues or power cuts might further hinder exam performance
and submission.
Solution:  
(i) An example that worked really well for students was allotting extra time for remote
exams in anticipation of technical difficulties and/or interruptions in the test taker’s
location.
(ii) Students found it really beneficial when there were multiple quizzes/exams, and only
the best scores were taken into consideration to provide more buffer for students who
may underperform due to technical or circumstantial issues.
Assessing Class Participation for Synchronous and Asynchronous Classes.   
Issues: 
(i) Remote learning makes it difficult for students to participate in all class activities.
(ii) Larger class sizes and technical difficulties also impact class participation.
Solution:  
(i) An example that really worked for students was when the professor assessed class
participation only on the basis of the quality of participation shown in the classes the
student was able to partake in.
(ii) Students found that weekly discussion posts on online platforms (such as Canvas
and Piazza) were able to engage with the class better when they were the primary
criteria to grade them for class participation.
Recorded Lectures for Asynchronous Classes 
Issues: 
(i) In an asynchronous setting, students might find it difficult to continuously engage in
recorded lectures.
(ii) A lack of student-teacher interaction might further disengage students from the
recorded lecture format and hinder the Q/A or feedback process.
Solution: 
(i) Students found it easiest to follow lectures that were broken down into smaller sections
and that covered discrete topics.
32(ii) Some of the best lectures were those where the instructor's face was visible, because
it was easier to engage with the material.
(iii) Students felt more engaged and involved when instructors occasionally held
synchronous meetings to discuss the lecture material with students.
(iv) Students found one- on-one short feedback sessions conducted by instructors to be
the most effective for clearing queries and concerns about the course or materials.
33