




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:


































































Ashoka University offers three types of postgraduate programmes at present. The first is the Young India Fellowship (YIF), a one-year multidisciplinary diploma programme in Liberal Studies. Fellows then, have the option to pursue their Master’s in Liberal Studies (MLS) after graduating from the YIF. Fellows who have been accepted by an Ashoka University faculty mentor to work on a specific research project as a graduate assistant, stay back for an additional year to pursue their MA liberal arts. The programme is highly interdisciplinary and entails coursework from a variety of disciplines.
Apart from this, Ashoka University’s Master’s programme in Economics has been developed to provide students with the opportunity to be trained in modern Economics by highly qualified economists. Applications opened for the first batch of Master’s in Economics students in February this year. 






















The Master of Arts (MA) programme in English at Ashoka University aims to occupy an important space in the current landscape of higher education in India. Many young scholars of literature and culture in India are contemplating studying these subjects at the PhD level, but have yet to be exposed to the liberal arts ethos and pedagogy. The MA programme in English will provide a unique intellectual experience for these students while carving out a much-needed path to higher studies abroad and in India.




















Ashoka University’s Master’s programme in Economics has been developed to provide students the opportunity to be trained in modern Economics by highly qualified economists. Our approach to Economics is a comprehensive one. We believe in teaching students both how to ask and address questions that are informed by economic theory as well as how to substantiate their arguments with rigorous data analysis. The coursework in the programme has been designed with the latest research in mind and draws on some of today’s most exciting research fields. At the end of the programme, students are expected to have state-of-the-art quantitative skills valued both in academia and in the corporate world.



















The Masters in Biology program at Ashoka University is designed to impart holistic training in the fundamentals of physical and chemical principles of biology, in the diverse yet connected areas ranging from evolution and organismal biology to cell-molecular and computational biology. This unique program allows students to customize their specialized learning based on individual interests. Students will learn through hands-on training aided by contemporary and innovative pedagogical methods as well as through extensive independent research.



















The Master of Arts (MA) in Liberal Studies at Ashoka University is a 32-credit, one-year programme taken by students who have graduated with a diploma in Liberal Studies from the Young India Fellowship, and have been accepted by an Ashoka University faculty mentor to work on a specific research project as a graduate assistant. The programme is highly interdisciplinary and entails coursework from a variety of disciplines, including the humanities, social sciences, behavioural sciences and the natural sciences.
The purpose of a Master of Arts in Liberal Studies is to train students to think critically about their disciplines of interest, while deriving insights from other disciplines. It also aims to help students who wish to pursue graduate studies to ground themselves in their discipline(s) of choice and to prepare their graduate application.






































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University



















































 

