




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:















 















Ashoka University offers a multidisciplinary undergraduate programme, in the interest of exposing students to many different perspectives within and outside of the classroom.
Ashoka University aims to help students become well-rounded individuals who can think critically about issues from multiple perspectives, communicate effectively and become leaders with a commitment to public service. An Ashoka education carries a strong emphasis on foundational knowledge, thorough academic research based on rigorous pedagogy, and hands-on experience with real-world challenges.
Students get plenty of time to try out various possibilities, to pursue extra-curricular and co-curricular interests, to discover new passions, and perhaps to change the trajectory of their lives.






















Ashoka University’s undergraduate programme offers an interdisciplinary liberal arts and sciences education that focuses on academic research and intellectual growth. We wish you all the best as you prepare and participate in the application and admissions processes for the undergraduate degree programme.
Application Forms are now closed for the Academic Session starting in August 2023, and you will no longer be able to apply for this programme.
The Admissions Calendar for the academic session starting in August 2024 will be published in October 2023.



















The Admissions criteria and processes are based on holistic principles and values held by Ashoka University. All applicants will be evaluated on their level of engagement with their academics, extra-curricular activities, interests and potential within their unique life journeys. Throughout their academic and residential life at Ashoka University, students work towards developing faculties and values such as:




Intellectual curiosity and critical thinking



Academic rigour, research, and writing



Open-mindedness and willingness to learn



An interdisciplinary and problem-solving approach



Resilience, tolerance, and teamwork





















Please find below all the policies relevant to Ashoka University’s Undergraduate Admissions. Read through all the policies carefully before submitting your application form.



















Please find below the year-wise Fee Structure for the August 2023 cohort:




Components
First Year (AY 23-24)




Tuition
9,27,000


Residence
1,81,000


Total
11,08,000



Ashoka University offers need-based financial aid to all deserving students, irrespective of their financial status. Ashoka also has a merit-cum-means scholarship for the Sciences, providing up to a 100% waiver on tuition and residence fees.
To learn more about financial aid,




















The undergraduate outreach office connects with high school students from all walks of life through various interactive sessions, webinars, faculty workshops, and admission guidance sessions. Schools can invite our counselors and faculty to conduct a session for their students.



















For Application Related Queries:
Ashoka University Delhi Office
Days: Monday to Friday
Timings: 9:30 AM to 5:30 PM
Address: No. 222, Second Floor, Okhla Phase III, New Delhi – 110020
Ashoka University organizes campus tours every Monday and Friday (except public holidays).





Admissions Helpline:  +91 011-40747565



Email address: ugapply@ashoka.edu.in
















                    Shakul Raj Sonker (UG 2017, ASP 2018) comes from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Gathering all his experiences, he helped make education accessible to blind and visually impaired individuals.
                





























Territory Manager - South, Undergraduate Outreach




















Senior Director, Outreach, Ashoka University
                                                                                        MBA Washington University



















Territory Manager - Central-West, Undergraduate Outreach




















Academic Counselor, Undergraduate Outreach




















Academic Counselor, Undergraduate Outreach




















Graphic Designer, Undergraduate Outreach




















Territory Manager - North, Undergraduate Outreach 




















Regional Manager - East, Undergraduate Outreach




















Assistant Director, Undergraduate Outreach (West)




















Assistant Manager, Digital Marketing & MIS, Undergraduate Outreach




















Territory Manager - NCR, Undergraduate Outreach




















Senior Manager - Strategic Initiatives, Undergraduate Outreach




















Deputy Manager (South) - Outreach, Ashoka University




















Manager- Copywriter, Ashoka University




















Assistant Manager - Campus Engagement, Ashoka University




















Deputy Manager - Data Analyst, Ashoka University




















Deputy Manager - Undergraduate Outreach - Central West, Ashoka University




















Academic Counselor, Undergraduate Outreach, Ashoka University




















Academic Counselor, Undergraduate Outreach, Ashoka University




















Academic Counselor, Undergraduate Outreach, Ashoka University




















Territory Manager- North, Ashoka University




















Deputy Manager (North) - Outreach, Ashoka University




































Senior Manager, Office of Admissions, Ashoka University
                                                                                        B.A. (Hons) English Literature, M.A. Liberal Studies



















Deputy Manager, Office of Admissions, Ashoka University
                                                                                        B.Tech. Industrial Engineering, PG Diploma (Young India Fellowship)



















Deputy Manager,  Office of Admissions, Ashoka University
                                                                                        B.A. (Hons) Psychology, PG Diploma (Ashoka Scholars Programme)



















Assistant Director, Office of Admissions, Ashoka University
                                                                                        B.A. (Hons) English Literature, M.Th. Religious Studies



















Deputy Manager, Office of Admissions, Ashoka University
                                                                                        Bachelor of Journalism & Mass Communication



















Manager, Office of Admissions, Ashoka University
                                                                                        B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering, PG Diploma (Young India Fellowship)



















Director, Office of Admissions, Ashoka University
                                                                                        BA, MA English Literature; M. Div. Religious Studies



















Assistant Manager, Office of Admissions, Ashoka University
                                                                                        B.A. (Hons) Economics



















Assistant Director, Office of Admissions, Ashoka University
                                                                                        B.A. LL.B, PG Diploma (Young India Fellowship)



















Assistant Manager, Office of Admissions
                                                                                        B.A., M.A. English Literature



















Assistant Manager, Office of Admissions
                                                                                        B.Sc., M.Sc. Physics




































































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































 

