




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University





























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 































































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 



































































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:
















Our FAQs are organized thematically as follows: Admissions, Academics, Career Development, Extracurricular, Finances, Campus-related Facilities, and General Safety. 
Click on any of the themes to look at the FAQs. If you do not find an answer to a question, please email us on  and we will get back to you within 48 hours. 















Applications for the 2023 intake (Class of 2024) are now closed. To subscribe to our mailing list, please use the “Become a Fellow” pop-up form.













We invite applications from candidates who have a recognized undergraduate or equivalent in any discipline (final-year undergraduate students may also apply). Applicants may have work experience and/or a postgraduate credential.












What we essentially look for while assessing your leadership potential are:
– A clear idea of your journey so far
– What have been your successes and failures, and how have you learnt from them
– How do you plan to utilize the resources at YIF to build your future












Your essays represent you to the reviewers. Hence, your focus should be on making sure that they are well structured, clearly giving out the meaning and information that you intended them to. There is no right or wrong answer, but the essays are an opportunity to demonstrate who you are and how you think.












Your letter of recommendation(s) should be written by a person who has been your mentor or colleague academically or professionally. It should not be written by a friend or relative.











The interviews are conducted by panel members who are part of the University Faculty, Senior Leadership, Alumni and the YIF Admissions and Programme Teams.











All personal interviews for the YIF Class of 2024 will be conducted online, keeping in mind physical distancing and safety protocols.











You should know your submitted application very well. We expect that during the interview, you will put forth the most authentic version of yourself. The interview is designed to be a conversation.











Yes, you are eligible. However, you should be able to converse, read and write in English given that the medium of instruction at the YIF is English.











No specific skill, background or technical experience is necessary to be eligible for the Fellowship. The selection committee looks for consistent decent academic performance by an applicant. It also looks for activities carried out by the applicants during school and college, which showcases their excellence at sports, performing or fine arts, science and technology or commitment to social service and helping others. We look for the individual’s ability to work well in a collaborative environment, aptitude for leadership, communication skills, humility and adaptability.











The selection procedure at the Young India Fellowship is holistic and takes into account the context and journey of each candidate. While academic performance is important, it is one of the many aspects in your application. We understand that not all candidates have had access to a variety of extra or co curricular opportunities. We encourage candidates to share their non-academic engagements in a separate section of the application, which may include personal interests and hobbies as well.











Apply online by registering on .











The status of your application will be communicated to you as the process evolves, through email. The earlier you apply within a round, the earlier your application will be reviewed.











No. You can complete the online application in multiple sessions and have the option to save parts of the application as you proceed.











No. You are not required to send us a printed copy of the application form.











Uploading of most documents is optional at the time of application submission. However, we expect you to upload a photograph in the personal details section of the application. If you are shortlisted for the personal interview, we would require you to upload your documents on the portal.











Yes. You may apply with your provisional degree duly attested by your respective academic institution.











Yes. You can reapply but not within the same academic year. You will have to submit a fresh application the following year. We require reapplicants to submit an additional essay when submitting the application.











Yes, we do.











You can upload your resume if you wish to, but this is optional. The application form takes in your Academic details, Employment details, Awards, Achievements and Extracurricular Activities.











There is no pre-defined number of applicants that will be called for the interview or for admission.











The Class of 2023-24 will comprise of around 100 Fellows.











The Young India Fellowship is a year-long residential programme, starting in August and concluding with convocation in early July the next year. Fellows are required to stay in the housing provided through the University.











No, there is no such option. However, the candidate may re-apply in the following academic year (the next admissions cycle).


















The duration of the YIF programme is a year.












You will receive a Post-Graduate Diploma in Liberal Studies.












You can find a course catalogue with the names of the faculty members on the  page.











Your workload will vary based on your electives, ELM project, and the Critical Writing programme. But on an average the YIF requires you to put in at least 6-7 hours of work every working day.











Yes, you may attend undergraduate classes as well, provided you have permission from the faculty member whose class you would like to attend.











There is an attendance policy in place. Out of the 10 classes for each subject taught at the YIF, one is eligible to miss only 2 classes without any penalty. Beyond that, a Fellow will be liable to receive a grade cut, or an F grade, which would mean no credits for the course.











You will be working on a project based on your liking and background in groups of 5 Fellows. The Experiential Learning Module at the YIF complements the academic work with real work experience. The ELM work is supported by a team of coaches who provide essential guidance on gaining experience in research and fieldwork or the development sector; structuring business problems, data-analysis and presentations and training you for interests that lie outside of your expertise. Fellows undertake an seven month-long engagement with an organisation after completing the first two terms of the YIF programme.











The Fellows’ mentors are pioneers and leaders in their fields, who have created new organisations, led multi-national companies as well as reputed academic institutions, or have triggered new ways of thinking. They come from diverse sectors like media, civil services, cultural conservation, consulting, non-profits, banking, IT, etc.











The list of mentors will be made available to Fellows in the course of the year by the YIF programme team.


















Kindly refer to the  page for the fee structure of the program.











All Fellows are signed up for health insurance by the University upon joining the  programme.











The candidate will have to make the entire payment (as applicable, depending on the financial aid grant) before the start of the programme and may do so in 3 instalments. We make exceptions to this plan on a case-by-case basis depending on the circumstances of a candidate.











You may do so through the Online Payment Gateway on the Ashoka University Website, or via RTGS/NEFT/Demand Draft/Cheque.


















The Career Development Office (CDO) aims to help students evaluate their goals, prepare for recruitment, explore new possibilities, and navigate the tangled web of job hunting. They offer one-on-one counselling. The CDO’s Career Preparatory Program is designed to enhance students’ technical and professional skills. The Program includes masterclasses, talks by industry experts, Founder sessions, alumni round table talks, business communication workshops, resume reviews, group discussions, and mock interviews, among other sessions.
Ashoka University’s InfoEdge Centre for Entrepreneurship is the creative hub that fosters the entrepreneurial endeavours of all Ashokans – students, fellows, faculty members & founders. The centre encourages a culture of innovation on the campus through various activities & campaigns under the guidance of some of India’s most successful entrepreneurs. 











Yes. For more information, please view the placement page .











The YIF programme enjoys the support of reputed companies and associations, and of mentors, donors and institutions. It will be an invaluable opportunity to forge relationships for the future and widen your frames of reference. For the Young India Fellow who aspires to a career that is off the beaten track, the Fellowship is committed to helping them build that career. No matter what you wish to do, the Young India Fellowship aspires to be an invaluable launch-pad. Kindly refer to the  page for a detailed understanding of placements.











No. You cannot be a full-time employee during the one-year course of the programme. We do not encourage working even part-time while you are with us as your schedule with us will be very hectic.


















The Ashoka University campus has space for performing arts, poetry, music, cinema, sports and culinary exploits. There is a fully equipped sports block, a piano room, a professional sound recording studio, a media lab updated with the latest technology, a mini-amphitheatre, and an art studio. There are various clubs and societies on campus which help you explore your interests. For more information, please visit the  page.











For information on sports facilities, please visit the  page.


















Ashoka University is located in Rajiv Gandhi Education City, Sonipat, Haryana.











The Fellows will be staying at a fully furnished residential facility offered by Ashoka University. Each room will be shared by two students and will be organized separately for different gender expressions.











Yes, meals are provided at the mess, four times a day, for breakfast, lunch, snacks, and dinner. There are various food outlets on campus as well, some of which offer dining options late at night.











Visiting hours are up to 8 pm. No visitor can stay on campus beyond this time.











Ashoka University runs a dedicated shuttle service for students, staff and faculty that plies between Campus, Residential Facilities and Jahangirpuri (the closest metro station – Yellow Line) in Delhi. The frequency of shuttle services is different for peak hours, weekends and holiday seasons, so as to accommodate most individuals.











Yes. The Young India Fellowship is a residential program. Fellows are compulsorily enrolled into hostels, with rooms provided on a twin sharing basis. However, residents of Delhi and Fellows with family and friends in Delhi, may choose to stay off-campus in their free time as per the scheduling of classes, ELM, and other engagements on campus.


















Ashoka University runs its own shuttle service which is monitored by the administrative team at Ashoka University. Therefore, travelling to Ashoka University from Jahangirpuri metro station by the shuttle service is safe, even late at night. The last shuttle runs from Jahangirpuri at 11 pm.



















The Ashoka University campus is ably protected by a trained security team, led by members who are ex-CRPF and ex-Army.

















































Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University





















































