




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 































































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 



































































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:


























The Young India Fellowship has a growing and vibrant community of international students. Countries represented in our international community include United Kingdom, United States of America, Ireland, France, Pakistan, Ukraine, and more.
If you are an international student, the YIF is a worthwhile opportunity for you to experience a multidisciplinary education that has a global outlook, while being rooted in Indian ethos. Please contact the , we look forward to speaking with you.
Ashoka University gives its international students the best of opportunities, immersing them in an inclusive environment that helps them build a global perspective and develop a collaborative approach towards solving problems.
The programme fee, admissions process and financial aid policy for international applicants are the same as with applicants from India.











The admissions process for international applicants is the same as for Indian citizens.




















The financial aid policies and processes for international students are the same as they are for Indian students.
All financial aid offered by the university is need-based and admissions decisions are merit-based. Admissions decisions are independent of applications seeking financial aid. If you would like to apply for financial aid you are required to indicate the same while filling out the application form.




















The Office of Global Education and Strategic Programs at Ashoka University will provide support and guidance for the visa applications of selected students. For information, please write to gesp@ashoka.edu.in.




















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University























































