




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































Is literature a private utterance or a communal act? Is it inspired by the great collective mind of humanity, or is it the idiosyncratic articulation of the individual imagination? Does it have the human at its heart, or does it reflect the infinitesimal nature of the human in the face of a vast, impersonal and hostile universe? Is it an act of faith or is it a secular enterprise? Is it a discrete and distinct archive or is it entwined with the ritualistic and functional dimensions of human life? We will examine these questions through key literary texts in various genres across various historical periods. Literature in English will be the core of our inquiry, but we will pay attention to its larger contexts as and when necessary. Texts by Homer, Plato, Sophocles, Milton, Shakespeare, Pope, Wordsworth, Woolf, Mansfield, Joyce, Coetzee, etc.






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































