




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:































Student Portal









Ashoka University’s Liberal Arts and Sciences education imparts skills such as critical thinking, complex problem solving, written and oral communication, teamwork, and innovation for impact and change. As a prospective or current student, you are an important stakeholder in our journey. As such, you may have many questions about  academics, residential life, or overall experience. We hope the information on this page serves as a useful resource for you, as you share and support this unique journey. Please write to studentaffairs@ashoka.edu.in for any additional information that you require.


















Departments




























Department Handbook

                                        Department of Psychology Handbook

                                        Department of Sociology & Anthropology Handbook

                                        Department of Physics Handbook

                                        Department of History Handbook

                                        Department of Environmental Studies Handbook

                                        Department of Mathematics Handbook

                                        Department of Chemistry Handbook

                                        Department of Biology Handbook





























Ashoka University offers a multidisciplinary undergraduate programme, in the interest of exposing students to many different perspectives in and out of the classroom. Students are not expected to declare their Major until the middle of the second year. This is to ensure that they get plenty of time to try out various possibilities, to pursue extra-curricular and co-curricular interests, to discover new passions, and perhaps to change the trajectory of their lives.













































































The Young India Fellowship (YIF) – the essence of an Ashoka education, offered as a postgraduate diploma in liberal studies – is unlike any other academic programme. Fellows come from diverse academic, professional, socio-economic and geographical backgrounds. Within a year, they engage with diverse areas of study, research and practice, enabled by leading thinkers and scholars of our time. This often helps them reimagine themselves and discover their passions.






































































Ashoka University’s list of graduate academic programmes provides students with exhaustive knowledge of their subject areas and prepares them to tackle future real-world problems and challenges.



























Ashoka University offers a multidisciplinary Ph.D. programme in 9 disciplines, in the interest of exposing students to many different perspectives in and out of the classroom.







































































































From commencing her entrepreneurship journey during the pandemic to becoming a co-founder, Aditi shares her experience with entrepreneurship at Ashoka University

 27 July, 2023




























 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University























































