




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































Have you ever wondered what Arab Spring, Occupy Wall Street, MeToo and the Tea Party have in common? Not much, you might think. On the contrary, quite a lot. Even when they are vastly different from each other in politics, whether left or right-wing, radical or conservative, highly organized or very diffused, they are all examples of social movements. It is quite likely that you are often asked to tweet, friend, like or donate for some social cause. That is because social movements are propelled by the rhetoric and politics of emotions. It is true that intense emotions like those of anger, fear, disgust, love, empathy or grief are habitually invoked for social mobilizations and persuasion by most populist leaders. To study rhetoric and social movement therefore, is to study how dissent from poor and working-class people, women, people of color, LGBTQ activists, the disabled, immigrants, and other incompatible voices, come together in diverse ways to aid in building justice.






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































