




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































This is a History elective, which is also cross listed with the English department. 


The object of the course is to understand the specificity of colonial power and its modes of articulation in the Indian context, but thinking about the colonial specificity also helps us understand the way power operates in other historical contexts. In looking at the new realms of ideas opened up by the post-colonial turn, it explores both their conceptual underpinnings and their limits.


Structure: 


Each week there will be one lecture on a theme and one discussion of the suggested readings. The lecture will give an overview of the theme, locating the conceptual shifts in thinking about the theme and reflecting on the historiographical significance of these ideas. 


In the second lecture the discussion will develop around student presentations on the  readings suggested for the week. Each week, students will be expected to choose any one reading from the three or four suggested for each theme, read the text critically, and write a short note of about 500 words. In the class, we will discuss the write ups collectively and read specific parts of the texts closely. 


At the end of the semester students would have to choose any one theme and write an essay of about 3000-4000 words. This will require a deeper and wider engagement with the texts relevant to the theme. When necessary, supplementary readings will be  suggested for the end term essay. Drafts of the essays will be discussed in separate  discussion groups of 4-5 students at the end of the semester. 


Assessment will be based on: (i) weekly submissions and class discussions (35 percent), and (2) the end semester term paper (65 percent).






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































