




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

























The Admissions criteria and processes are based on holistic principles and values held by Ashoka University. All applicants will be evaluated on their level of engagement with their academics, extra-curricular activities, interests and potential within their unique life journeys and personal contexts. Throughout their academic and residential life at Ashoka University, students work towards developing faculties and values such as:

Intellectual curiosity and critical thinking
Academic rigour, research, and writing
Open-mindedness and willingness to learn
An interdisciplinary and problem-solving approach
Resilience, tolerance, and teamwork












Ashoka University’s holistic admissions process ensures that each application is evaluated in its unique context. Ashoka University’s admissions process is inclusive and has a strong focus on affirmative action. Given its emphasis on diversity, Ashoka University’s admissions process is mindful of applicants from various socio-economic and geographical backgrounds, learning needs and physical impairments, along with their access to opportunities in both academic and non-academic spheres while processing applications and selecting students for the programme. 
Please find the details of the stages involved in admissions in the table given below:
Admissions Process
Stage 1: 
Application & Assessments

Application: Academic scores, SAT/ACT scores, Personal Essays, Recommendation, Non-academic Engagement
Assessments: Ashoka Aptitude Assessment (Mandatory); On-the-Spot Essay (Mandatory)

In depth review of all applications and assessments by the Office of Admissions
Stage 2:

Shortlist for Interview

Interview with Panel (Mandatory)

Interviewers will interact with shortlisted candidates to get to know them and evaluate their suitability for academics at Ashoka
Stage 3:
Decisions and Financial Aid
Confirmed Offer

Conditional Offer
Waitlist (upon availability)
Deferral of Decision
Denial of Admission

Admissions Committee declares decisions. A separate Financial Aid application form will be opened for those granted an Offer of Admission


Holistic Admissions Process where each applicant is evaluated within their unique Context




Strong focus on Affirmative Action based on social, personal, medical, geographical, educational backgrounds, etc, to name a few




Merit based Admissions process and decisions


Need based Financial Aid Policy after offers have been made

Please refer to this image- 


Registering and starting the Application Form

An applicant needs to register with a personal email address (Gmail, Yahoo or Personal Domain IDs preferred) to start an application form. Use a personal email address and not a school or office-affiliated email address to ensure that they have access to this email address till the duration of their undergraduate degree programme
All communication from Ashoka University will be sent only to the applicant’s registered email address

Instructions to fill in the Application Form

The application form has multiple sections and is designed to get to know the applicant. The applicant is advised to carefully and thoughtfully engage with all the sections in the form
The applicant should supply all relevant information in both mandatory and non-mandatory sections of the application form
The applicant should attach all mandatory documents to prevent the application form from being considered ‘incomplete’. The applicant’s photograph, government identification document, and examination mark-sheets should be clearly visible and not password-protected
Haryana Domicile Applicants will be required to submit their Government issued Haryana Resident Certificate (Domicile) to avail of benefits (if relevant) as per the Haryana Private Universities Act. Eligible applicants may attach a receipt of their Resident Certificates if they do not have access to their Resident Certificates at the time of submitting their Application Forms.
The applicant should attach collaterals (certificates, photographs, artwork, writing samples, web-links, letters of experience/completion/appointment, etc) for optional sections to substantiate their listed activities and areas of engagement
The applicants are required to respond to the mandatory personal essay prompts. They should be written by the applicant and should aim to address the stated prompt/cue as genuinely as possible
The applicant should get the consent of the recommender before enlisting the recommender’s name on the application form
The applicant’s choice of preferred Majors under the Course Preference Section in the application form is only indicative in nature.
Please find the sample applications .
Ashoka University also offers extensive support to its students for English language, writing, learning disabilities, medical, mental health, and counselling. Please find the details for these support centers here: . To enable the university to extend adequate support to the applicant during the admissions process and on campus (if made an offer of admission), the applicant is requested to submit all relevant details in the Support at Ashoka Section of the application form
Academic Bridge Programme: The Office of Admissions at Ashoka University seeks to support select students from each incoming cohort by offering them the chance to attend a fully-funded 3-week Academic Bridge Programme on campus prior to the start of the academic session. The Academic Bridge Programme aims to bridge the gap between their high school education and the Ashoka University classroom experience. The focus of the classes during the academic Bridge Programme is on the usage of the English language, academic reading and writing, thinking critically, synthesizing information, and presenting cogent arguments. Classes are taught by tutors from Ashoka’s Undergraduate Writing Programme (UWP) and Centre for Writing and Communication (CWC). The Office of Admissions and the Office of Student Affairs co-host the residential life experience for the Academic Bridge Programme students, collaborating with the Office of Learning Support, the Ashoka Centre for Well Being, the Office of Academic Affairs, and the Career Development Office to offer workshops and special events to prepare and help students settle into their Ashoka journey
Please make sure that you click SUBMIT after you finish completing your application form.


Instructions regarding Assessments
Once an application form has been submitted within the deadline of a particular round, the applicant will be required to mandatorily participate in the Assessments on the date(s) mentioned in the Admissions Calendar. The Assessments consist of the following:

On-the-Spot Essay; Mandatory (30 minutes)
The on-the-spot essay evaluates the following parameters: engagement with the prompt, critical thinking, clarity of thought, and creativity. The candidate will be given two topics to choose from at the time of writing the essay. The candidate cannot use any external resources to help them write the essay. The essay has no word limit and can be attempted with minimal preparation
Please  to download sample essays and prompts of the On-the-Spot Essay.

 

Ashoka Aptitude Assessment; Mandatory (90 minutes)
The Ashoka Aptitude Assessment has been developed for Ashoka University’s admissions purposes by Cambridge and is based on the Thinking Skills Assessment to evaluate the thinking skills of the applicant. It consists of questions on problem-solving skills (includes numerical and spatial reasoning) and critical thinking skills (includes understanding arguments and reasoning using everyday language). It has a total of 40 Multiple Choice Questions (20 problem-solving questions and 20 critical thinking questions) and is designed to be taken with minimal preparation.
 Please  to download a summary and a sample paper of the Ashoka Aptitude Assessment.
Please  for detailed instructions regarding the Online Assessments scheduled for Round 4 applicants on Sunday, 11th June, 2023, between 10:00 am to 4:30 pm (IST)


Instructions for the Interview
Each Application Form is read in detail and evaluated along with the Assessments in a holistic manner by the Admissions Committee, which shortlists candidates for an interview. Interviews are usually conducted across multiple cities (Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Lucknow, etc.) in India. For applicants who are unable to travel to any of the cities where in-person interviews are conducted, there is a provision for an online interview with the interview panel. 
In light of the Covid-19 Pandemic travel and safety restrictions, all interviews will be conducted online, till further notice.

Interview with a panel; Mandatory
The Ashoka Interview seeks to understand and get to know the candidate, their background and story. It also evaluates various parameters of the application form submitted by the candidate to gauge the candidate’s suitability to Ashoka University’s academic and residential life programme. The candidate will be interviewed by a panel. The time taken for the interview might vary depending on the interaction





















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






















































