




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































What does it mean to overcome? Are we made stronger by surviving adversity? Are we made empathetic through a first-hand experience with challenge? Do we demonstrate resilience from managing hardships? Is there a synthesis of existing contradictions? Is there a redemption from past shortcomings? Is there a fulfillment of unrealized potential? These and related questions draw our attention to the political importance of overcoming as a personal or collective project: there is some sort of power manifest in pushing beyond what otherwise might have held us back. In this course, we will read a variety of material dealing with politics, philosophy, literature, psychology, sociology, history, etc., and ask ourselves what various materials might tell us about overcoming, what is overcome, what happens as a result of overcoming, etc. Themes may include the dialectic, repression, translation, authority, expression, exclusion, and, perhaps, pandemic.




















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































