




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 

















































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 





















































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:


























All Courses 4 Credits (Theory Courses roughly 40 hours), Labs- 13 sessions, each 3 hours
Semester II (3 courses)

Topics in Chemistry: Theory
Energetics of Change:  Theory Course

System and surroundings, state function and path function, Four laws of thermodynamics, internal energy, enthalpy, entropy, free energy and chemical potential, criteria for spontaneous change, Temperature and pressure dependence of free energy and chemical potential, chemical equilibrium and phase equilibrium, Phase diagram.

Introductory Laboratory  Course: Lab course


Semester III (3 Courses)

Basic Inorganic Chemistry:  Theory Course

Periodic Properties,  General Chemistry of Main Group, Transition and Inner Transition elements

Concepts in Organic Chemistry: Theory Course

Organic Chemistry in day to day life: General applications of carbon compounds in day to day life.  



Structure and bonding: Ionic, Covalent, Coordinate and Hydrogen bonds, The octet rule,  Formal charge, Sigma (σ-) and pi (π-) bonds,  Hybridisation, , Inductive effects, Hyperconjugation, Mesomeric effects, Steric effect,  Acidity and basicity, Acids, Bases 
Nomenclature:  Functional groups, IUPAC Nomenclature of aliphatic organic compounds: Alkanes, Alkenes, Alkynes, Alcohols, Amines, Carboxylic acids, Ethers, Halides, and nitriles.
Aromaticity: Hückel’s rule and characteristics of aromatic compounds benzenoid and non-benzenoid compounds, Alternant and nonalternant hydrocarbons, Annulenes, Anti-aromaticity, Homo-aromaticity and Nomenclature of aromatic compounds.
Stereochemistry: Representation of stereostructures: Fischer, Newmann, and Sawhorse Projection formulae and their interconversions.
Conformational analysis: Butane and cyclohexane (mono and disubstituted) and their relative stability and energy diagrams.
Configurational analysis: Geometrical isomerism: cis–trans, syn-anti, and E/Z notations with C.I.P rules.
Optical isomerism: Chirality, Enantiomers, The Cahn–Ingold–Prelog (R and S) nomenclature, The D and L nomenclature, Diastereoisomers (or diastereomers), Diastereoisomers,  Mesomer Racemic mixture,  resolution of racemic mixture and ee%


Atoms, quanta, and light:  Theory Course

Dual behavior of light and particle, Postulates of quantum mechanics, particle in a box, rigid rotor, harmonic oscillator, hydrogen atom, rotational spectra, and vibrational spectra.

Semester IV ( 4 Courses)

Inorganic Chemistry: Theory Course

Structure and Bonding of Inorganic Molecules including Coordination, and Organometallic  compounds and molecules of biological importance

Rate, order and mechanism: Theory Course 

Rate of a reaction, order and molecularity of a reaction, determination of order and rate constant of the reaction, Arrhenius equation, collision theory, Transition state theory, parallel, consecutive and reversible reaction, determination of reaction mechanism from rate law.

Elective- 1: Theory Course
General Chemistry Laboratory I :  Lab course 


Semester V ( 3 Courses)

Mechanistic Organic Chemistry I : Theory Course

Language of arrows: straight arrow, curved arrow, half headed arrows and double headed arrows
Bond cleavage: Homolytic & Heterolytic bond
Reaction intermediates formation, stability and reactivity: Carbocation, Carboanion, Free radicals, Carbene, Nitrene, Benzyne
Type of Reagents: Electrophile & Nucleophiles
General types of reaction
Addition reactions:  Electrophilic & Nucleophilic addition, Markonikoff & Anti Markonikoffs Rule
Elimination reactions: E1, E2 and E1CB, Factors affection elimination reaction, Energy profile diagram
Substitution reactions: SN1 and SN2, SNi, Factors affection substitution reaction Energy profile diagram, Anchimeric Assistance, Substitution reaction in aromatic compounds
Condensation reactions: Aldol condensation, Dieckmann condensation, Claisen condensation, Enamine and Imine formation
Pericyclic reactions:  Woodward Hoffman Rule and Molecular Orbital Theory Diels Alder reaction
Rearrangement reactions: Carbocation, Carboanion, Free radicals, Carbene, Nitrene intermediates


Modern Methods of Analysis and Characterization: Theory Course

Introduction to Spectroscopic, Microscopic and Diffraction methods, Electroanalytical and thermal Methods,

General Chemistry Laboratory II : Lab Course


Semester VI ( 3 Courses)

Mechanistic Organic Chemistry II: Theory Course


Reagents in Organic Synthesis: 


Organometallic Reagents: Organomagensium, Organolithium, Organocopper, Organosilicon, Organoboron, Organozinc. 


Oxidising Reagents: PCC, PDC, DDQ, OsO4, KMnO4, MnO2, Jones reagent, Collins reagent, Oxalyl chloride, Al(iPrO)3, TEMPO, HNO3, Dess-Martin Periodinane 


Reducing Reagents: LiAlH4, NaBH4, DIBAL-H, Red-Al, Lindlar’s catalyst, Rosenmund catalyst, H2, Raney nickel, Adams Catalyst, Na-liqNH3, Al(iPrO)3, Wilkinson’s catalyst, Sn/HCl, N2H4/OH-


Name Reactions: Wittig reaction, Simmons-Smith Reaction, Ene Reaction, Cope Elimination reaction, Click reaction, Sharpless epoxidation 


Designing Organic Synthesis:  Retrosynthesis and disconnection approach


Synthesis of natural product: (±) Estrone, Mifepristone (Ru-486) And Its Analogues




References: 
1. Principle of organic synthesis, R. O. C. Norman and J. M. Coxon
2. Advanced Organic Chemistry: Part A: Structure and Mechanisms  by Francis A. Carey  and Richard J. Sundberg  
3. Organic Chemistry by Jonathan Clayden, Nick Greeves and Stuart Warren
4. Designing Organic Syntheses: A Programmed Introduction to the Synthon Approach by Stuart Warren

Elective 2: Theory Course
Elective 3: Research  project
Suggested Electives: (3 electives to be chosen, prerequisites to be detailed)




Applied Organometallic & Coordination Chemistry
Environmental Analysis
Chemical Biology
Chemistry of Materials
Renewable Energy: Hydrogen and Solar Energy
Materials at nanoscale
Computational Chemistry and Molecular Simulation
Environmental Chemistry
Energy Materials: Batteries, Super capacitors etc




Advance  General  Chemistry  Laboratory






















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






















































