




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































Technology giants like Amazon, today have hundreds of economists working for them. What is it that these economists do? And what will the impact of emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence (more specifically Machine Learning) on our economy and society be? These are perhaps some of the most important questions facing us today.This course will use tools learnt in earlier courses in macro and micro economics to develop an understanding of the economics of automation and emerging technologies. This understanding will then be used to study the effect of such technologies on a range of topics such as employment and the future of jobs, economic growth, organisation of businesses etc. We will also look at how machine learning can affect the discipline of economics itself.The students should have completed courses in microeconomics, game theory, and growth theory. Knowledge of differential calculus and basics of integration will also be required. Some knowledge of regression analysis will be useful.


Pre-reqs: ECO-2101 (Microeconomic Theory I), ECO-2201 (Macroeconomic Theory I), ECO-2202 (Macroeconomic Theory II). Some econometrics is desirable but not required.






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































