Assignments,	Examinations,	and	Grades	Assignments	There	are	many	forms	of	assessed	assignments	at	Ashoka	University.	These	include	(but	are	not	confined	to)	●	essays	●	projects	●	in-class	writings	●	on-line	discussion	forum	contributions	●	oral	presentations	●	quizzes	Examinations	Many	but	not	all	courses	will	have	final	examinations	scheduled	for	examination	week.	Whether	or	not	there	is	an	examination,	and	what	form	it	takes,	is	at	the	discretion	of	the	professor.		Grading	System	For	every	course,	the	student	will	receive	a	final	letter	grade.	These	grades	are	calibrated	to	the	GPA	quality	points.	The	grid	below	decodes	the	lettered	grades	that	will	be	followed	at	Ashoka	University,	and	their	relationship	to	the	GPA	Quality	points.	The	percentage	scores	that	will	earn	these	grades	will	be	decided	by	the	individual	faculty.		Percent	Letter	Grade	GPA	Quality	Points	90	–	100			A	4.0	85	–	89		A-	3.7	80	–	84				B+	3.3	75	–	79	B	3.0	70	–	74		B-	2.7	65	–	69				C+	2.3	60	–	64	C	2.0	55	–	59		C-	1.7	50	–	54				D+	1.3	45	–	49	D	1.0	40	–	44			D-	0.7	<	40	F	0		What	Grades	Mean	• A,	 A–			Excellent	 quality	 and	 full	 mastery	 of	 the	 subject.	 	 A	 grade	 of	 A	 means	extraordinary	distinction.	• B+,	 B,	 B–		good	comprehension	 of	 the	 course	 material,	 a	 good	 command	 of	 the	 skills	needed	to	work	with	the	course	material,	and	the	student’s	full	engagement	with	the	course	requirements	and	activities.	• C+,	C,	C–		adequate	comprehension	of	the	course	material	and	the	skills	needed	to	work	with	 the	 course	 material.	 indicates	 the	 student	 has	 met	 the	 basic	 requirements	 for	completing	assigned	work	and	participating	in	class	activities.	• D+,	D,	D–		barely	satisfactory	work	indicating	minimal	command	of	the	course	materials	and	minimal	participation	in	class	activities.	• F			unsatisfactory	and	unworthy	of	course	credit	towards	the	degree.	There	are	some	other	grades	that	appear	on	transcripts:	• I		In	 exceptional	 circumstances,	 a	 student	 can	 petition	 to	 take	 an	 “Incomplete”	 for	 a	course	 if	 they	 have	 not	 submitted	 all	 the	 required	 coursework	 and	 they	 have	 a	compelling	 excuse	 for	 not	 having	 done	 so	 (usually	 serious	 illness	 or	 a	 major	 family	emergency).		The	student	must	complete	a	petition	for	an	Incomplete	–	the	form	will	be	available	 from	 the	 Office	 of	 Academic	 Affairs	–	which	 will	 include	 the	 reason	 for	 the	Incomplete	together	with	a	list	of	work	that	needs	to	be	completed	and	a	clear	timeline	for	 completion.	 	 The	 form	 must	 be	 approved	 also	 by	 the	 course	 professor.	 	 All	incomplete	 work,	 expect	 in	 exceptional	 circumstances,	 must	 be	 turned	 in	 within	eight	weeks	of	the	end	of	the	semester.		After	the	professor	has	graded	the	incomplete	work,	the	student’s	grade	will	be	adjusted	accordingly	and	the	“I”	will	not	stay	on	his	or	her	transcript.	• W		If	a	student	withdraws	from	a	course	during	the	semester,	the	course	will	remain	on	the	student’s	transcript	but	a	grade	of	“W”	will	be	entered.	• WF	Withdraw	with	Fail	is	awarded	if	the	student	withdraws	from	the	course	after	the	last	date	for	withdrawal.	This	impacts	the	GPA	in	the	same	way	as	a	Fail	grade	• TR	These	 are	 transferred	 credits	 of	 courses	 that	 students	 has	 taken	 at	 another	university.	Grades	earned	as	TR	are	not	calculated	as	part	of	CGPA.		• LOA	If	 a	 student	 withdraws	 from	 the	 semester	 after	 getting	 sanctioned	 leave	 as	 per	University	policy	LOA	(Leave	of	Absence)	is	entered	against	each	course	enrolled	for	in	the	semester.			• AU	When	a	student	audits	a	course,	the	credits	become	part	of	that	semester’s	credit	load.	 A	 student	 enrolled	 for	 official	 audit	 may	 be	 required	 to	 participate	 in	 class	discussion,	 do	 practicum	 work,	 submit	 written	 work,	 and	 take	 examinations,	 as	determined	by	the	course	instructor.	If	the	audit	is	completed	to	the	satisfaction	of	the	instructor,	a	grade	of	AU	is	entered	for	the	course.	Grade	Point	Average,	or	GPA	A	student’s	GPA	or	Grade	Point	Average	is	calculated	each	semester	on	the	basis	of	grades	for	all	his/her	 courses,	 including	 Co-Curricular	 courses.	 	 It	 is	 the	 average	 number	 of	 GPA	 Quality	 Points	achieved	per	credit	of	coursework	in	the	semester.				At	the	end	of	each	semester,	on	his/her	transcript,	the	student	will	receive	not	only	a	GPA	for	the	semester	but	also	a	cumulative	GPA	score.					