




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































This course is an introduction to forecasting analyses and techniques and dedicated to teach students the latest tools in econometrics to enable them to make knowledgeable judgements about various types of data. This course is especially useful for forecasting business time series such as sales, expenditures, and macroeconomic time series such as GDP, interest rate, inflation, etc.The course will introduce some of the basics of statistics before moving on to main topics in forecasting. You will learn the ways to examine and prepare data before forecasting. Various useful techniques will be taught about improving the precision of forecasting. Time series topics will include linear regression, ARIMA models, trend modeling, seasonal adjustments, etc. With an emphasis on applications with statistical software, this course will walk you through the methods of analyses of both macro and micro level data.


Pre-reqs: Mathematics for Economics, Statistics for Economists, Macroeconomics I, Macroeconomics II, Econometrics. This course should be accessible to students with basic knowledge in algebra, statistics and linear regression.






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































