




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University
































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



























Financial AId










Ashoka University is committed to making its world-class education accessible & affordable for students from all walks of life. This is made possible through our need-based Financial Aid philosophy.
While admission to Ashoka University is based on academics, extra-curricular activities and other holistic principles, financial aid is assessed entirely on the basis of the financial standing of the student’s family.
A candidate’s ability to pay is assessed based on various financial resources available to their immediate family, including current income, savings, investments, and education loans , to finance the expected educational cost. Our endeavour is to provide necessary financial support which can help admitted candidates bridge the gap between the cost of the programme and their ability to pay.
A financial aid commitment of INR 418 crores raised through collective philanthropy has helped over 4100 students achieve their dreams by availing financial aid from the institution.





Committed as Financial Aid since inception



Student benefitted from Financial Aid grants



Student on campus are on Aid




To view a sample of the Financial Aid Application Form, click .
For any queries not answered here, please write to 


Ashoka University awards merit cum means scholarship for exceptional Undergraduate students intending to major in Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics or Computer Science at Ashoka.
A total of 25 scholarships will be awarded in addition to the need based financial aid available to all students, of which 5 of candidates will receive a waiver of 100% on Tuition and Residence, and remaining 20 will receive a waiver of 100% on Tuition.




Ashoka University offers programs for lifelong learning at distinct career stages. Students can choose from undergraduate, postgraduate, Masters and YIF programmes.










Since the beginning of the Undergraduate Programme in 2014, Ashoka University’s generous Financial Aid policy has helped support approximately 48% of our stud












Since the beginning of the MA Economics Programme in 2017, Ashoka University’s generous Financial Aid policy has helped support approximately 55% of our students who have













MA English programme, Ashoka University’s Financial Aid policy seeks to help students pursue this programme through financial grants toward their Tuition Fee and R

























Ashoka University aims to bridge the gap between the cost of the program and the student’s ability to pay by offering financial aid. Following are testimonials from parents sharing their experience of the financial aid process.

























Ashoka University is committed to offering a world-class education in India. This is matched by efforts to ensure that this education is accessible and affordable for students from all walks of life. The application process constitutes of below four categories.









If you are Shortlisted for the Interview








If you receive a Firm Offer of Admission








When your aid application is being assessed








Final Decision & Acceptance of Offer

















Ashoka University has collaborated with the following banks and organisations to provide students with the option to explore education loans independent of our financial aid programme. Please click on the following options for more details:

































Ashoka University believes that the primary responsibility to bear the cost of the educational expenses of the student belongs with the family before the university grants financial aid. We expect that the family will consider various financial resources available to them, including current income, savings, investments, and education loans, to finance the expected educational cost. The financial aid grant provided by the university aims to bridge the gap between the cost of the programme and your ability to pay.











The financial aid given by Ashoka University is assessed solely on the basis of your family’s financial standing. It is not based on scholastic merit, sports qualifications, parent’s occupation or any non-financial factors.











If you are eligible, you can receive anywhere from a 25% waiver on tuition to a full waiver on the total fee.











As per Income Tax Act of 1961, you are only exempt from filing an ITR if your total income is below INR 2,50,000. If you fall in this category, you will need to provide:
– an affidavit on a stamp paper, stating the gross annual income and the source(s) of income (if the earning member is self-employed)
– salary slips for the last six months/salary certificate from the employer (if the earning member is salaried)











Yes, you will be required to upload the statements of all bank account by converting them into PDF files of sizes under 2mb. Ensure that the resolution of the PDF is 200dpi. Alternatively, you can also attach a zip folder containing all the statements.











Yes, we do offer financial aid for international students. However, if the international student is admitted to the university on partial or no financial aid, he/she is expected to manage their expenses, like travel (both local & international), medical etc. during their time at Ashoka University.











If you are planning to apply for a transfer to Ashoka University for the Spring 2020 semester, your financial aid form will be open from 27th – 31st December 2019. We strongly urge you to download the sample  and obtain the necessary information and mandatory documents well in advance. You will find the list of documents in the Application Process section above.











If you are an international student, you will be required to present any/all document(s) that you file with the government of your country that establishes the gross income and tax paid by individuals in your family or by the business owned and run by your family.











No, you can only submit the financial documents through the financial aid form (refer to the Financial Aid Application Process)











The percentage of financial aid granted to you is applicable for the entire duration of your undergraduate programme at Ashoka University.











Your financial aid will apply to the fourth year as well provided you apply and register for the diploma programme offered by the university, called the Ashoka Scholars Programme.











As the percentage of financial aid granted to you is fixed at the time of joining Ashoka University, it will not be reviewed at any point in the course of the programme. The University expects the family to have sufficiently planned their finances to cover the entire length of the programme. However, in case of extreme unforeseen circumstances which greatly affect the family’s original financial planning (eg. Loss of job or loss of life of an earning member/s, or any similar circumstance), you will be allowed to apply for a revision of your current financial aid grant for the subsequent academic years by completing the Exceptional Circumstances Form. This review will only be considered if you contact the Office of Financial Aid between 1 – 30 April, before the start of the next academic year. Any revision of aid will only be applicable for the next academic year.
If you are planning to apply for the Ashoka Scholar’s Programme, and there has been a significant change in the family’s financial situation which warrants a revision of aid, you must contact the Office of Financial Aid no later than 30th April before the start of the next academic year. Please note that any requests received after 30th April will not be considered.











Yes, the level of financial aid granted to you will be applicable to the summer semester at Ashoka University. For more information, please write to 











No, your financial aid package does not include the study abroad or semester abroad programmes. If you wish to apply for financial aid for any of these programmes, you are required to contact the Office of International Programme at 











Haryana Resident students are eligible for a full or partial fee concession as per the Haryana Private Universities Act. However, this fee concession is subject to the submission of Haryana Residence Certificate and ITRs of parents/guardians. Please note that this benefit is only valid at the time of admission. Ashoka University reserves the right to determine the percentage of fee concession. This fee concession is valid for the three years of the Undergraduate Programme and is not applicable for the 4th year of Ashoka Scholars Programme. Transfer students are not eligible to apply for this benefit.











COLLEGE BOARD INDIA SCHOLARS PROGRAM IN PARTNERSHIP WITH ASHOKA UNIVERSITY
Students in India who score 1300 or above on the SAT® will be recognized as Top Performers by the College Board at the end of April on an annual basis. Top Performers who demonstrate significant financial need, defined as family income less than INR 8,00,000 per annum, and receive a firm offer of admission from ​A​shoka ​U​niversit​y, are eligible to receive a full tuition scholarship for the entire duration of their programme of study at Ashoka University. The family income will be verified by scholarship administration partner, . Read more about the College Board India Scholars Program on 





















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































 
