




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 






































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 










































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

























 

Each summer the CWC offers Summer School writing courses on research, academic and creative writing. They are paid programs and are open to participants outside Ashoka University.
This year the CWC hosted four summer schools on: Research Writing in the Humanities and Social Sciences, Academic Writing in the Sciences, Introduction to Editing and Proofreading, and Academic Publishing.
Combining both academic and creative themes and topics, these workshops are held with the objective of imparting practical skills and tenets of critical thinking that could be used by the participants in achieving their writing goals.
CWC Summer School on Research Writing in the Humanities and Social Sciences (June 26-30, 2023)
The Summer School helped participants develop a portion of writing along with equipping them with tools and techniques useful for research writing in academic and professional settings. Sessions will cover original contribution, framing research questions, literature review, research ethics, research methods, and components of a research paper and thesis.
A key feature of the school is the use and applicability of ethnographic research methods such as interviews, observations, field notes, and thick descriptions across varied research settings.
CWC Summer School on Academic Writing in the Sciences (June 26-27, 2023)
The workshop helped participants understand academic formats and styles of writing. It focussed on the basic elements of academic writing in the sciences and will discuss topics such as finding a research story and the structure of an academic paper, writing abstracts, use of language, self-editing tips, referencing, and citations.
CWC Summer School on Introduction to Editing and Proofreading (June 25, 2023)
The Summer School introduced participants to the practice of editing and proofreading. The session will address the difference between editing and proofreading, kinds of errors, levels of editing, and proofreaders’ marks including abbreviations and symbols.
The workshop was intended for anyone interested in editing and proofreading. The workshop was not purely academic in its scope, and included professional editing for publishing industry, content writing etc.
CWC Summer School on Academic Publishing (July 3-4, 2023)
This two-day Summer School introduced the participants to how to get started with publishing in various formats within academia: including research articles, books, reviews and monographs. It involved familiarizing the participants with every aspect of the publishing process: starting from the nitty gritty of shortlisting/ selecting a journal/publisher and submission, corresponding with editors and proofreaders, to various stages of peer-reviewing, revisions, proofreading, and post-publication priorities. 
The workshop was designed to cater to an audience at various stages of their career in academia. 











 




[CFP now closed] The CWC’s annual conference brings together educators, scholars, students and activists working in the field of education. Our first conference in 2017-18, Reflections on Writing, critically examined the idea of writing in university spaces. The 2018-19 conference focused on Inclusive Pedagogy: Teaching and Learning Practices in Higher Education in India. CWC’s 2019-20 Conference ‘Challenges/Strategies in Teaching English for Academic Purposes (EAP) in Higher Education in India’ was postponed due to Covid-19 and is to be held online in April 2021. On 23rd-34th April 2021 CWC hosted its 3rd Annual Conference titled Challenges/Strategies in Teaching English for Academic Purposes (EAP) in Higher Education in India‘. This online event brought together scholars working in the fields of ELT and English Studies on a range of topics, including multilingulaism, language hierarchy, generalist versus subject specific tutoring, among others. Panels ‘Teaching Methods and Curriculum Building’ and ‘The Hetergenous Classroom: Strategies for Inclusion’ deserve special mention for initiating the task of data collection in the field of teaching writing in India. The conference closed on a high note with Prof. Giridhar Rao’s (Azim Premji University) keynote address  chaired by Prof. Prakash Padakannaya (Christ University, Bangalore). CWC’s 2022-23 upcoming conference titled Writing ‘Data’: Interdisciplinary Perspectives aims to bring together scholars and teachers across disciplines whose work engages with varied aspects of writing methods & pedagogies as they interact with and respond to data and computation methods in their scholarship, research, and teaching.












To address research writing needs of Ashoka students  pursuing research projects and dissertations, the Winter School was started in 2021. The winter School is a five day long program organized during the winter break and has series of workshops, lectures and individual and group writing sessions on various aspects of research writing, including methodology writing, and science writing and communication.
 [Applications Closed]  The CWC is pleased to invite applications for its Winter School 2022-23 on research writing. This is for Ashoka students at different stages of writing their dissertations. The course will cover various aspects of writing your dissertation including, but not limited to: Introduction to Research Writing, Literature Review, Writing a Research Proposal/ Synopsis, Writing an Abstract and Research Ethics.
The classes were held on campus from February 4 to February 6, 2023 (3 days). Applications are now closed, and the deadline for submission was December 4, 2022. Ashoka students in ASP, postgraduate courses (including MLS) and PhD participated. There were three sections of this course: a) Research Writing for ASP, Master’s and MLS students (Humanities & Social Sciences), b) Research Writing for PhD students (Humanities & Social Sciences) and c) Research Writing in the Sciences. Keep an eye on this page for future Winter Schools conducted by the CWC.
















In 2017, CWC introduced its Research Forum, a platform for the academic staff of the university (teaching fellows, YIF preceptors, postdoctoral fellows, writing tutors) to share their research. The discussions saw participation from scholars of anthropology, history, performance studies, creative writing, sociology, law and politics. On the Permissible in Literature; Citizen Insurgencies: Fictions and Politics in North-East India; Sense of Place: Writing in Fiction and Memoir; Law, Governance and Religion: Constituting the Citizen; Of Circuses and Comedians: Public Cultures of Amusement in India; Visualising Gond Histories; Querying the Indian Parliament: What can the Question Hour tell us about Muslim Representation in India.






















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






















































