Students’ Guide
Department of Computer Science
Ashoka UniversityDEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE ,ASHOKA UNIVERSITY
This guide was made by the CS Society in consultation with the CS Representative, Seniors, Alumni
and Faculty members. The CS Society also acknowledges the work of the Economics Representatives
in setting up the Students’ Guide for Economics, parts of which have been referred to while creating
this document.
DISCLAIMER : The information in this guide is meant to serve as a ready reference for students.
Some information may become backdated with changes in curriculum, policies etc. Thus, you are
requested to conﬁrm the latest updates from the ofﬁcial website and/or the CS Student Representative
before taking any action.
First release, Monsoon 2020Contents
1 Overview ......................................................5
1.1 Degree Requirements at Ashoka 5
1.2 GPA and Credit System 5
1.3 CS at Ashoka 6
1.3.1 Programs Offered ..................................................6
1.3.2 Faculty and Research Interests .......................................6
2 Curriculum .....................................................7
2.1 CS Major Requirements 7
2.1.1 CS Core Courses ..................................................7
2.1.2 CS Elective Courses ................................................8
2.1.3 A CS Major’s recommended path ....................................8
2.2 Advanced Major in CS (ASP) 8
2.3 CS Minor Requirements 9
2.4 Interdisciplinary Majors 9
2.4.1 CS and Mathematics ...............................................9
2.4.2 CS and Entrepreneurship ............................................9
2.5 CS Concentration Requirements 9
3 Academic Opportunities .......................................11
3.1 Complimentary Disciplines 11
3.2 Study Abroad Programs 114
3.3 Teaching Assistantships 11
3.4 Independent Study Modules (ISM) 12
3.5 Research Opportunities with Professors 12
3.6 Awards and Recognition 12
4 CS Clubs and Societies ........................................13
4.1 CS Society 13
4.2 Women in Computing Society (WiCS) 14
4.3 Special CS Events 14
5 Additional Resources and Advice ..............................15
5.1 University Resources 15
5.1.1 Library .........................................................15
5.1.2 IEEE Explore and ACM Digital Library ..................................15
5.1.3 Ofﬁce Hours .....................................................15
5.1.4 Teaching Assistants/ Fellows .........................................15
5.1.5 CS Help-desk ....................................................16
5.1.6 CS Representative ................................................16
5.2 Faculty Advice 16
5.2.1 General Advice ..................................................16
5.2.2 Book/ Resource Recommendation ...................................17
5.3 Post-Ashoka Journey 17
5.3.1 Advice on Internships and Job Search ................................17
5.3.2 On Letters of Recommendation from Faculty ...........................17
5.3.3 Alumni Experiences in the Industry ...................................18
5.3.4 Alumni Experiences in Higher Education ...............................20
5.4 Useful Contacts 251. Overview
1.1 Degree Requirements at Ashoka
To graduate with a Bachelor’s degree, students are required to pass courses that are broadly divided
into three categories – Foundation Courses ,Major Courses (including Interdisciplinary Majors)
andCo-Curricular Courses . First year students typically take foundation courses in the ﬁrst 3-4
semesters at Ashoka, and start taking Major courses from the 2nd semester.
You also have the option to take up a completely different subject as a minor or a concentration in
addition to your major. Minors and Concentrations are brief programs taken in disciplines other than
your major. Minors at Ashoka require you to take 6 courses in a discipline, while a concentration
requires 4 courses.
1.2 GPA and Credit System
Please note that University-wise credit requirements are subject to change, and the latest requirements
are always available on the ofﬁcial website .
At Ashoka, each course carries credit points - foundation courses as well as major speciﬁc and minor
courses typically earn a student 4 credit points , while co-curricular courses give 2 credit points . In
order to earn their degree at the end of three years, students pursuing a pure major (such as Computer
Science etc.) need to have accumulated a minimum of 100 credits . On the other hand, students
pursuing an interdisciplinary major (such as CS and Entrepreneurship etc.) must fulﬁll a minimum
of116 credits . A student’s performance in any academic course is graded on a letter scale (ranging
from A to F). Each grade carries a grade point (such as an A gives 16 grade points, while an A- gives
14.8). On this basis, at the end of every semester a student’s cumulative grade point average (CGPA)
and semester speciﬁc GPA are calculated. For more on this, please refer to the section on Awards
and Recognition (3.6).6 Chapter 1. Overview
1.3 CS at Ashoka
The Department of Computer Science at Ashoka University acknowledges the increasing relevance
of computing and information science to every academic discipline. In addition to classical and
emerging areas of Computer Science, students have an opportunity to study interdisciplinary areas
like computational biology, social and information networks, digital humanities and data-driven
journalism. 2 interdisciplinary majors, a minor, a concentration are also offered by the Department
in addition to an undergraduate major in Computer Science and a Ph.D. in Computer Science.
The goals of the programme include (but are not limited to):
1.Impart a deep understanding of the foundations of Computer Science
2.Enable a student to be able to systematically apply the foundational knowledge across disci-
plines
3.Create new knowledge in the ﬁeld of Computer Science
1.3.1 Programs Offered
•Undergraduate
–Major
–Interdisciplinary Major
–Advanced Major–Minor
–Concentration
•PhD
•Graduate Assistantship
1.3.2 Faculty and Research Interests
•Ravi Kothari , Professor (HOD Com-
puter Science) Machine Learning, Pattern
Recognition, Data Mining and Big Data
•Sudheendra Hangal , Professor of the
Practice in Computer Science Human-
Computer Interaction, Social Media and
Personal Digital Archives
•Manu Awasthi , Associate Professor Com-
puter Architecture, Operating Systems, and
Computers & Society
•Anirban Mondal , Associate Professor Ur-
ban Informatics (Smart Cities), Spatial
Databases and Financial Analytics
•Mahavir Jhawar , Assistant ProfessorCryptography, Block-chain and Network
Security
•Debayan Gupta , Assistant Professor Se-
cure Computation, Cryptography, and Pri-
vacy
•Goutam Paul , Associate Professor (Visit-
ing - Spring 2020, Monsoon 2018) Cryp-
tology, Security, Information and Coding
Theory, Quantum Information and Compu-
tation
•Subhash Bhalla , Professor (Visiting -
Monsoon 2020, Spring 2021) Distributed
Database Systems, New Query Languages
For a complete list of all faculty (core and visiting) and PhD students pursuing CS at Ashoka, visit
thedepartmental website .2. Curriculum
2.1 CS Major Requirements
While our attempt is to provide the most accurate information, the CS curriculum at Ashoka is
frequently updated to remain relevant. Thus, please conﬁrm the requirements with the version on the
departmental website before taking any action. Incase of any conﬂict, refer to the version on the
website.
To receive a B.Sc. degree with a Major in Computer Science at Ashoka University, students must
accumulate 100 credit points at the end of three years. The course divisions and credit points
requirement within three years for a Major in Computer Science are as follow:
•Foundation and Critical Thinking courses
•Co-Curricular courses (4 credits)
•Computer Science Major courses
–The course division for Computer Science Major courses is given below:
1.Compulsory 10 core courses for 40 credits.
2.A minimum of 20 credits of electives offered by the CS department.
•Other Courses
2.1.1 CS Core Courses
These are the courses you have to take in order to obtain a BSc. (Hons) degree in CS from Ashoka.
Please note that the references books mentioned aren’t ofﬁcial recommendations.
1.Discrete Math
2.Probability and Statistics
3.Introduction to Computer Program-
ming
4.Computer Organization and Systems
5.Advanced Programming6.Operating Systems
7.Algorithm Design and Analysis
8.Computer Networks
9.Introduction to Machine Learning
10.Programming language Design and Im-
plementation8 Chapter 2. Curriculum
2.1.2 CS Elective Courses
Here’s a non-exhaustive list of popular CS Elective courses that have been offered at Ashoka:
1.Theory of Computation
2.Computer Security and Privacy
3.Data Mining and Warehousing
4.Database Management Systems
5.Unstructured Information Processing
6.Advanced Algorithms7.Advanced Computer Architecture
8.Advanced Machine Learning
9.Block-chain and Cryptocurrencies
10.Distributed Systems
11.Linear Algebra
Please Note: ISMs count towards your electives, but there’s a cap on the number of ISMs
you can take.
2.1.3 A CS Major’s recommended path
•1st Semester
–No CS courses
•2nd Semester
–Introduction to Computer Program-
ming
–Discrete Mathematics
•3rd Semester
–Probability and Statistics
–Computer Organization and Systems
–Advanced Programming
•4th Semester
–Algorithm Design and Analysis–Operating Systems
–CS Elective
•5th Semester
–Computer Networks
–Introduction to Machine Learning
–Programming Language Design and
Implementation
–CS Elective
•6th Semester
–CS Elective
–CS Elective
–CS Elective
2.2 Advanced Major in CS (ASP)
To graduate with a Postgraduate Diploma in Advaced Studies and Research (DipASR) in Computer
Science at Ashoka University, students must accumulate 32 credit points at the end of one year. The
course divisions and credit points requirement for a DipASR in Computer Science are as follows,
1.A minimum of 32 credit points are required.
2.Of these 32 credits, a minimum of 16 credits must come from Computer Science courses.
3.Of these 16 credits, 4 credits must come from CS498: Capstone Project.
Some additional notes on the Capstone Project and the Capstone Thesis:
•CS498: Capstone Project [4 Credits]: A Capstone Project is done under the guidance of
a faculty member and is aimed at encouraging a student to solve a complex problem. A
Capstone Project is largely implementation focused.
•CS499: Capstone Thesis [8 Credits]: A Capstone Thesis is not mandatory. Enrollment
in Capstone Thesis requires the approval of a faculty member who will take into account
one’s performance in CS498 along with other aspects (including what is being proposed). A
Capstone Thesis is largely research focused.2.3 CS Minor Requirements 9
2.3 CS Minor Requirements
In order to get a Minor in Computer Science, students are required to take 24 credits made up as
follows,
1.Introduction to Computer Programming
2.Five more CS courses. Of these ﬁve, at least 3 of them must be CS core courses.
2.4 Interdisciplinary Majors
For the latest information, refer to the departmental website .
In order to Major in an interdisciplinary program, students must accumulate 116 credit points in three
years. The Computer Science department offers two interdisciplinary Majors - (i) Computer Science
and Mathematics , and (ii) Computer Science and Entrepreneurship . The course divisions and
credit points requirement within three years for these two Interdisciplinary Major are as follows,
1.Foundation and Critical Thinking courses (28 credits)
2.Interdisciplinary Major courses (76 credits)
3.Co-Curricular courses (4 credits)
4.Other courses (8 credits)
2.4.1 CS and Mathematics
The course division between Computer Science and Mathematics department for this interdisciplinary
Major is given below.
•A minimum of 36 credits must come from Computer Science department. Of these 36 credits,
a minimum of 28 credits must come from ”Computer Science core course list for CS+Math
interdisciplinary Major”. The core list is given below.
•A minimum of 36 credits must come from the Mathematics department. Of these 36 cred-
its, a minimum of 28 credits must come from ”Mathematics core course list for CS+Math
interdisciplinary Major”. The core list is given below.
•The remaining 4 credits can come from any Computer Science/Mathematics courses.
•Computer Science
Introduction to Computer Programming
Computer Organization and Systems
Algorithm Design and Analysis
Computer Networks
Introduction to Machine Learning
Computer Security and Privacy
Theory of Computation•Mathematics
Calculus
Linear Algebra
Algebra I
Probability
Real Analysis
Multivariable Calculus
Statistics
2.4.2 CS and Entrepreneurship
For this interdisciplinary Major, students, in addition to 4 courses (16 credits) in the Entrepreneurship
department, must complete all Computer Science pure Major requirements.
2.5 CS Concentration Requirements
In order to get a Concentration in Computer Science, students are required to take any four (16
credits) Computer Science courses.3. Academic Opportunities
3.1 Complimentary Disciplines
Computer Science is a very versatile subject - with applications transcending multiple disciplines. At
Ashoka, we have 2 interdisciplinary courses in CS, along with Entrepreneurship and Mathematics.
Apart from these, it is also common for students studying CS at Ashoka to enroll in courses from
Mathematics, Economics, Physics and Biology.
3.2 Study Abroad Programs
Note that, like any other program at Ashoka, the Study Abroad Programs are subject to changes.
Kindly refer to the GESP website for the latest information. Additionally, contact the departmental
HOD for further clariﬁcation regarding credit transfers
Every summer, international summer schools offer undergraduate courses in different subjects and
ﬁelds. These courses can be transferred (subject to faculty approval) to the total credits taken
as Ashoka. The Ofﬁce of Global Education and Strategic Programmes (GESP) is available to
students for assistance and counselling in the application process.
Ashoka is currently partnered with Wellesley College, UC Berkeley, University of Pennsyl-
vania, Yale University, King’s College London, University of Michigan, Penn Engineering,
Sciences Po, and Trinity College Dublin .
Students can also apply for research and internship opportunities abroad to get practical experience
in their ﬁelds of interest through a competitive process. These opportunities are available in Lehigh
University, NTU Singapore, Koç University etc. For any enquiries on the process of applying for a
summer/semester abroad, kindly email studyabroad@ashoka.edu.in
3.3 Teaching Assistantships
As a TF/TA, you would be responsible for grading quizzes, holding discussion sessions and doubt
clearing ofﬁce hours, as well as helping with the logistics for classes. A prospective applicant can12 Chapter 3. Academic Opportunities
apply to TA for only those courses which they have already studied in Ashoka in the past. While
preference may be given to seniors, anyone is welcome to apply for TAship by approaching the
professor directly. Some courses may have different procedures, so do conﬁrm it with the instructor.
3.4 Independent Study Modules (ISM)
Independent Study Modules (ISM) are 4-credit research projects that provide students an opportunity
to work closely with a faculty member. These projects can either be research that faculty members
are already working on or any other research topic that students may be interested in. If interested,
you can simply approach a faculty member through email prior to the start of the semester, requesting
them for guidance through an ISM. These count towards your electives.
3.5 Research Opportunities with Professors
If you are interested in CS Research, it is a great idea to start working as a Research Assistant (RA)
under a faculty member. In order to do so, you will have to personally approach faculty members in
their ofﬁce hours and enquire whether you can assist them on current projects. Before seeking RA
roles, make sure to have prior knowledge about the research interests of your faculty member. The
CS Society also has plans of creating a uniﬁed Undergraduate Research Opportunities Platform to
ease out this process.
3.6 Awards and Recognition
•Dean’s List: The Dean’s List at Ashoka for any given semester includes the names of all
students who, in the courses they have taken that semester, have scored a GPA of 3.65 or
above. The Dean’s List is awarded on a semester basis.
•Latin Honors: Students who have achieved scholastic distinction may be awarded the bach-
elor’s degree with Latin honors at graduation. Honors appear on the ofﬁcial transcript and
diploma. The criteria for these honors is as follows:
1.Cum Laude (With Distinction) - GPA >3.6
2.Magna Cum Laude (With High Distinction) - GPA >3.75
3.Summa Cum Laude (With Highest Distinction) - GPA >3.9
•Academic Achievement Awards: Gold Silver and Bronze Awards are awarded respectively
to the students attaining the Top 3 Major CGPAs during graduation.
•Undergraduate Research Excellence Awards: Awarded to the graduating student with the
best track record in academic research, evaluated on the basis of publications and thesis quality.
•Service Excellence Awards: Awarded for extraordinary service in department building
through various activities..4. CS Clubs and Societies
4.1 CS Society
The Computer Science Society at Ashoka University was founded in 2016 to strengthen the emerging
CS culture on campus. It is an academic society that aims to create opportunities and resources
for all students interested in this ﬁeld through a host of activities. Past events include Mahavamsa -
Ashoka’s ﬁrst programming contest, hackathons, cryptic hunts, talks and workshops. Students across
majors and disciplines are welcome to join!
The CS Society is currently undergoing major structural changes. These include:
•Formation of sub-departments such as Competitive Programming ,Software Development ,
Machine Learning and Data Science as per the interests of the student members of the
society.
•Weekly training and mentor-ship programs , occasionally involving well qualiﬁed guest
instructors.
•Creating a uniﬁed portal for Undergraduate Research Opportunities - to bring interested
undergraduates and faculty members, PhD students etc. together.
•A larger presence on social media and public forums, including a public website and technical
blogs.
Reach out to us at cs.society@ashoka.edu.in.14 Chapter 4. CS Clubs and Societies
4.2 Women in Computing Society (WiCS)
Founded by an Ashoka alumnus, Simran Bhuria, and launched on campus by Mrs. Rashmi Mohan,
an ACM eminent speaker on 29th September 2016, Women in Computing Society is a small bunch
of passionate students working towards making the CS culture at Ashoka a safer, healthier, and
inclusive one. We also focus on supporting everyone in CS, especially womxn, academically and
personally. We constantly work towards building a larger community of womxn in CS that is
collaborative and supportive in nature. As an academic society, we organise talks, hackathons,
cryptic hunts, workshops, problem-solving centered stalls and events, and reading groups. As a part
of our larger vision of an inclusive community, we organise events focused on activism – blog posts,
discussions on gender in academic spaces and sexism, sessions on building conﬁdence and tackling
other challenges for womxn in STEM and movie screenings!
1.WiCS cryptic hunts: We have had multiple hunts since the inception of WiCS based on
different themes in collaboration with other societies such as – Ashoka’s Philosophy Society,
Ashoka’s Psychology Society, Sandhi (Ashoka’s Languages Society), Ashoka Society for
Politics, etc.
2.Workshops: These are focused on tools and skills useful for students in CS and beyond. We
have done workshops on Git, web development, programming for beginners (Programming
without Code), Excel/Google Sheets etc.
3.Interactive sessions: Some of the sessions we have organised in the past: a session with Prof.
Jennifer Widom, Stanford University at Ashoka (2018), a Capstone Student Panel Discussion
with senior students and alumni, an open house for CS students focused on discussions around
gender in academic spaces, mixers for CS womxn.
4.Problem-solving centered stalls at fests and Haats: These were our attempts at sharing the
joy of solving puzzles and love for algorithms with others at Ashoka.
5.Hackathons, collaborative work sessions focused on competitive programming, and unwinding
sessions.
Reach out to us at wics@ashoka.edu.in.
4.3 Special CS Events
•CS Mixer: The CS Mixer is a unique initiate undertaken by the Department of CS every year,
intended primarily to introduce the CS freshers to the seniors and members of the faculty. It
is a fun event where you get to interact with all the faculty members, seek quick advice, all
while enjoying free food!
•Mahavamsa: Mahavamsa is Ashoka’s ﬁrst coding contest. It is a 48 hour coding contest
with lots of cash prizes to be won. The contest is open to all current students of Ashoka
University. Beginners and non-CS majors are also encouraged to participate. All you need is
basic programming knowledge in a language of your choice! The ﬁrst edition of Mahavamsa
was held in Spring 2020 and the CS Society intends to make it a recurring event.5. Additional Resources and Advice
5.1 University Resources
5.1.1 Library
Ashoka University provides access to a diverse set of resources through its Library. The Ashokan
Library plays an essential role in the university, offering students access to both print and digital
media. As an Economics major, you can access many such resources including textbooks, fun reads,
magazines, academic papers, through both on-campus issue of books or remote access to eBooks.
For more information on library resources, you can simply visit their website. Happy exploring!
5.1.2 IEEE Explore and ACM Digital Library
•ACM (Association for Computing Machinery) Digital Library: Archives of 2500 -Conference
proceedings. 53 Peer-reviewed Journals, 8 Technical magazines, 37 Technical newsletters.
Visit https://dl.acm.org/ , while within the campus network. Unlimited access and downloads.
•IEEE Explore: Archives of 44,499+ articles, 35, 921+ Transactions articles, 523,853+
Conference paper, 283+ Letters articles. Visit https://ieee.org/ieeexplore while within the
campus network. Unlimited access and downloads.
5.1.3 Ofﬁce Hours
Often scheduled twice a week, based on the convenience of the instructor, ofﬁce hours are cabin
appointments where students can individually discuss doubts and problems either in relation to the
course material, or any other personal issues with the instructor.
5.1.4 Teaching Assistants/ Fellows
The TA/TF acts as an additional resource that the students can consult before reaching out to the
instructor. The TA/TF can provide individual assistance to each student, keeping in mind speciﬁc
concerns, while at the same time creating a friendly peer-assistance environment. In order to contact
your TA/TF, you can simply email them on their Ashoka TA/TF email ID’s which will be provided
to you at the onset of the course.16 Chapter 5. Additional Resources and Advice
5.1.5 CS Help-desk
The CS Help-desk is currently a pilot program, organised by seniors within the CS Society. You’ll
have student tutors that will help you with coding, related math, and concepts, aimed to provide
additional support during your coursework in your ﬁrst year. The CS Society will send you email
updates notifying you about the timings of the Helpdesk and appointments can be made by ﬁlling up
available slots.
5.1.6 CS Representative
For the current academic year, the CS Student representative is Sehajpreet Kaur . When in doubt,
feel free to bug her with anything CS related.
5.2 Faculty Advice
5.2.1 General Advice
Welcome to CS@Ashoka!
Computer Science, goes the joke (hint: they’re not joking), has little to do with com-
puters and is not really a science. If you really push me, I’d say that it is a study of
processes, of understanding why and how things happen, and their inherent complexity:
is one problem truly harder than another? E.g., is it more difﬁcult to ﬁnd a square root
than a 3rd root? Why? (Maybe there’s an easy trick for one and we’re just being stupid.)
Personally, I love this subject because it’s the closest thing to magic we have. We create
our incantations (computer programs), prepare the appropriate sacriﬁces (sleep is the
common currency used by undergraduates, I believe), and wave our wands (or macbooks
dual-booting linux): our spells can travel across the world across the only planetary-scale
infrastructure ever built by humanity, jumping across chains of electrons and photons
in a system that stores (nearly) the sum total of human knowledge (and ignorance).
Our spells can analyse your iris and detect diabetes well before any medical doctor
could, and also tell the hospital how to best optimise their supplies; they can navigate
our spacecraft across unimaginable distances and help us understand the universe; they
can connect us all through social media and buoy industry through a pandemic via
e-commerce. There’s a dark side as well - all things can be misused.
I hope to teach you a lot about computer science. But I don’t just want well-trained
worker bees: I want brilliant, nuanced thought; I want technical knowledge balanced by
moral ﬁbre; but most of all, I want each and every one of you to become the very best
human beings you can be (that, and understand pointers properly).
PS. Yes, computer scientists tend to use more parentheses than most other people (and
what’s wrong with that?).
-Debayan Gupta , Assistant Professor, Ashoka University5.3 Post-Ashoka Journey 17
5.2.2 Book/ Resource Recommendation
Textbooks/ Reference books recommended by Faculty:
1.Introduction to Algorithms by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest, and Stein
2.The C Programming Language by Kernighan and Ritchie
3.The C++ Programming Language by Bjarne Stroustrup
4.Database System Concepts by Avi Silberschatz
5.Computational Complexity: A Modern Approach by Barak and Arora
6.Introduction to Modern Cryptography by Katz and Lindell
7.Cryptography and Network Security by Stallings
8.Compilers: Principles, Techniques, and Tools by Aho, Lam, Sethi, and Ullman
9.Artiﬁcial Intelligence: A Modern Approach by Norvig and Russell
10.Computer Networks by Tanenbaum
11.Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach by Hennessy and Patterson
12.Modern Processor Design by Shen and Lipasti
Other fun reads:
1.Gödel, Escher, Bach by Douglas Hofstadter
2.I am a Strange Loop by Douglas Hofstadter
3.The Art of Computer Programming by Donald E. Knuth
4.The Age of Surveillance Capitalism by Zuboff
5.Why Can’t We All Just Get Along? by Fry and Lieberman
6.Propaganda by Bernays
7.Discourses on Livy by Machiavelli
5.3 Post-Ashoka Journey
5.3.1 Advice on Internships and Job Search
Internships are often a great way to explore work-roles. Ashoka University offers a 3-month long
summer break, which you can utilize productively by interning. It is advisable to search for summer
internships at least 2-3 months prior to the start of the break - most ﬁrms or research centers have
deadlines that you should research about as early as possible. Moreover, Ashoka University’s Career
Development Ofﬁces (CDO) also provide internship opportunities through ﬁrms that recruit interns
on campus.
If you’re applying through CDO, keep your SuperSet proﬁle updated to avoid last-minute hassle.
For CS speciﬁc internships, do occasionally brush up on your Data Structures and Algorithms .
5.3.2 On Letters of Recommendation from Faculty
Graduation School applications often require letters of recommendation from faculty during the
admissions process. An optimal letter-writer should ideally have you in at least one class or should
have supervised you in research, thesis, or other work. Moreover, their contact with you should be
relatively recent. You might also want to consider how well you performed in their class or work and
whether you have had interactions with them outside of the classroom.
Note that different professors may have different rules related to Letters of Recommendation,
thus make it a point to get in touch with your desired letter-writer and clarify all details well in
advanced. Also, approach the faculty at least 2 weeks in advanced for them to be prepared.18 Chapter 5. Additional Resources and Advice
5.3.3 Alumni Experiences in the Industry
Barun Parruck (UG’19)
Q:What does your current role at Google India entail?
A:I’m a Software Engineer 2 at Google, speciﬁcally an iOS full stack developer within the
Google One team. My day to day work involves ﬁxing bugs assigned to me, proposing and
implementing new features, and writing unit tests for these features.
Q:You were active on competitive programming websites. How helpful do you think that
was in helping you secure an internship at Microsoft and the subsequent job offer?
A:They were perhaps the main feature of how I got the internship. Getting the job offer from
the internship was a completely different task, and primarily involved making extensive
contributions to their codebase and presenting and demo’ing my additions constantly over the
period of the internship.
Q:During your time at Ashoka, what were your favorite courses? Other than Program-
ming, what area of CS intrigued you the most?
A:Software Debugging is probably the most useful course I’ve ever taken. Most of my interest lies
in either algorithmic problem solving or full stack web development and software architecture.
My favourite course was Databases and Data Mining (Debapriyo Majumdar), followed closely
by Computer Organization and Systems (Vivek Seshadri)
Q:Any pitfalls one should avoid while studying CS at Ashoka?
A:Avoid taking too many courses (though deﬁnitely attend a single class of every single course,
just in case you’re missing out on some exceptional professors). I think a lot of people get
caught up with the idea that the goal is the submission of the assignment. I’ve had bad grades
now and then - but I’ve tried my best to make sure that every assignment submitted wasn’t for
the submission but for the content. And start early! :P
Q:What advice would you give to undergraduates who wish to join the industry?
A:Deﬁnitely I’d say you need to focus on getting your interviews right. I seem to do pretty well in
traditional SWE interviews and a large part of that comes from my competitive programming
background, as well as just grinding leetcode and practicing mock interviews a lot. If you
don’t interview often, it’s quite likely that stress will act up and cause you to perform subpar.
And reach out to seniors, professors, anybody - connections are important in the industry re:
getting referrals. Participate in all the popular company recruitment drives like the Facebook
Hacker cup, or the Google Code jam/kickstarter. And ﬁnally, you can always reach out to
recruiters on Linkedin if you’ve got a decent proﬁle to be able to bring a more personal touch
to the applications you make
Barun Parruck is a Software Engineer at Google Inc. He was formerly a Software Engineer at
Microsoft where he had also interned in his junior year. As a student, Barun was very active on
competitive programming websites like Codeforces5.3 Post-Ashoka Journey 19
Nishka Dasgupta (ASP’19)
Q:What does your current role at Microsoft Research Lab, India entail?
A:I work as a Research Fellow. Under the guidance of my manager, I am currently trying to
develop efﬁcient protocols in Multiparty Computation (MPC).
Q:What do you think, helped you secure your current role?
A:Both my previous summer internships had been research-focused, speciﬁcally on cryptography
projects, so that certainly played a factor. By fortunate coincidence, my most recent internship
before I applied had been in multiparty computation (MPC), and the manager whom I applied
to work with was also interested in MPC at the time, so our research interests aligned. Having
strong recommendations also helped.
Q:How should one prepare for job/internship searches?
A:While not every role will have the same requirements, there are some general best practises
that have helped me. Cover your bases before any interview or exam; a lot of interviews, even
for speciﬁc roles, often expect a breadth of basic knowledge anyway. Be prepared to network
and ﬁnd out which of your professors (especially professors who have a positive impression of
you) knows someone who knows someone who works at your dream company/university. Talk
to your seniors, batchmates and professors as well, to learn about opportunities you would not
have heard of otherwise (that’s how I learned about the RF programme at MSR). Don’t take
rejection personally; focus on learning from your mistakes. Try not to bluff too hard about
your interest or knowledge regarding any ﬁeld/professor unless you are prepared to put in the
work until you really are as dedicated/knowledgeable as you claimed to be.
Q:Any pitfalls one should avoid while studying CS at Ashoka?
A:As most of the professors don’t really impose a speciﬁc language, it can be easy to get too
comfortable with only one language. This is a mistake. Look for excuses to learn new
languages or frameworks that you are not being forced to learn in a class, especially those
popularly used in your preferred ﬁeld (e.g most big crypto projects are written in C/C++) or
in the industry at large. Python is delightful up until your job interviewer asks you questions
about memory errors in C. Although mathematics courses are not compulsory for CS at
Ashoka, some ﬁelds (and grad schools) will expect certain courses (e.g a Linear Algebra
requirement for AI focused programmes; a Number Theory requirement for theoretical crypto).
If you have a preferred ﬁeld, do your research on what is needed (talk to relevant professors
too) and plan your courses accordingly.
Q:Any advice for undergraduates about the Industry?
A:Long working hours are, unfortunately, the norm, whether in research or in development.
Especially near deadlines, sleep can be hard to come by. So, start working on your ability to
handle stress. In research speciﬁcally, you will often be expected to take the lead and start
making suggestions instead of waiting for your mentor to tell you what to do next; if you have
trouble with that, start practising.
Nishka is a Research Fellow at Microsoft Research Labs, India. She has interned at Nanyang
Technlogical University - Singapore, and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research - Mumbai, as an
undergraduate researcher.20 Chapter 5. Additional Resources and Advice
5.3.4 Alumni Experiences in Higher Education
Anavi Kajla (ASP’18)
Q:You pursued your Masters in Human-Computer Interaction. How good a ﬁeld, in your
opinion, is HCI for someone who wants to study Computer Science in sync with the
Humanities?
A:HCI is a highly interdisciplinary ﬁeld and can draw from virtually any discipline. A degree
in CS and then going into HCI is highly beneﬁcial because you have a deeper understanding
of software development and various technical constraints. Ultimately, any job in UX will
involve a high degree of communicating with developers about the designs you create and
knowing how they work gives you an advantage.
Q:You have also interned at Amazon. What skills do such companies look for while hiring
students who specialize in UI/UX? Do Data Structure and Algorithm skills take prece-
dence? Or are Software Engineers who work on UI/UX projects evaluated differently?
A:There are 4 paths someone interested in UI/UX can take: UX Designer, UX Engineer, Visual
Designer and UX Researcher. Skills & evaluation depends on which role you’re interested
in and usually doesn’t require knowledge of CS concepts we’re taught in our major. I would
highly recommend looking up these specializations for a more in-depth understanding of what
each role entails and where your interests/strengths lie. There are skills common to all these
that employers typically look for: a portfolio of projects (super important!), storytelling skills,
creative problem-solving and the ability to communicate well with others. In my case, I was
exclusively an SDE and didn’t have much of a UI/UX component in my internship apart from
working on a small front-end project.
Q:What parameters would you advise an undergrad at Ashoka to focus on, if they wish to
pursue graduate studies in Human-Computer Interaction?
A:Since most CS classes at Ashoka have a project component in them, it would be beneﬁcial
if students could go and talk to actual users of the product they’re building and get feedback
on it! This would help them understand the importance/role of UX in product development
and also, make for a great portfolio project. Apart from that, getting familiar with various
prototyping tools (eg. Sketch, Figma) is a great place to start developing interaction & visual
design skills. Some of these tools also offer students free plans! And, front-end skills are a
bonus too.
Q:Are there any pitfalls one should avoid while studying CS at Ashoka?
A:The Ashoka CS department has grown a lot since I graduated and students should take
advantage of the variety of classes offered to develop their interests. When I was attending,
my batchmates & I would take whichever course was offered so we could complete our major!
It didn’t afford us the ﬂexibility to take classes that we were genuinely interested in. Apart
from one introductory HCI class in my second year, I wasn’t able to study more topics in the
ﬁeld. But now hopefully you can!5.3 Post-Ashoka Journey 21
Q:What advice would you give to undergraduates who wish to eventually join the industry
in a similar ﬁeld?
A: –Try to involve users in your class projects early to get a feel of the work you’ll be doing
as a UXer
–Working on a portfolio takes time, so start early! (look here for inspiration)
–Research the ﬁeld and it’s many specializations well before you decide to take the leap -
it’s not for everyone
Anavi is currently a product designer at the Library of Congress - USA. She pursued her Masters in
Human Computer Interaction from the University of Maryland-College Park. She has also interned
at Amazon as a Software Development Engineer
Pratyush Ranjan Tiwari (ASP’20)
Q:What are your current research interests?
A:My main research area of interest is cryptography. My areas of interests within cryptography
are veriﬁable computation, quantum cryptography, privacy-preserving techniques and funda-
mentals of cryptography. I am particularly interested in designing protocols with minimal trust
requirements.
Q:What undergraduate research that you have undertaken are you the proudest of?
A:Two main projects: a) Is the paper I published at IEEE Security and Privacy on the Blockchain
titled CryptoWills, which is a protocol for secure and private last wills for cryptocurrencies.
This allows for people’s funds in cryptocurrencies to be distributed to their loved ones after
they passed away, this is a ﬁrst protocol solving that problem. b) Security & Privacy and
attacks on Aadhaar: I worked on this with a big team of people at Ashoka under Prof. Debayan
Gupta. My personal contribution was towards the cryptography used in Aadhaar, I devised
the biggest attack on Aadhaar till date. The paper is embargoed and we are awaiting govt.
permission to publish.
Q:Any pitfalls one should avoid while studying CS at Ashoka?
A:Don’t do things because other people think they’re cool. Find out for yourself if working for a
big tech company will actually be your dream job. Since Ashoka is new and we don’t really
get the FAANG companies to visit and hire, people at Ashoka CS often develop this fantasy
for such jobs. Do internships to ﬁgure out what a career in a particular direction is like, do
an internship with some startup in Bangalore/some other city in India (and abroad too if you
can) to ﬁnd out what it’s like living that life. Intern at a university in India (and abroad too
if you can) to ﬁgure out what life in academia is like. Bottomline, whatever possible career
trajectories you want to try out, do that a lot, even if it costs you some grades (tbh, don’t drop
below 3.5 tho).Start looking for internships for the next summer from August, ask professors
to connect you with people. After the summer before 4th year you can basically have a plan
then on what to do next. Finding jobs/grad schools etc. will take a year and thats’ what the22 Chapter 5. Additional Resources and Advice
4th year is for. Try different dept. at Ashoka and their courses, doing interdisciplinary things
opens new doors career wise. Only work with people you enjoy working with. Don’t fall
into the classic CS stereotype, and be healthy, well rounded and don’t let your major be your
identity.
Q:How should one prepare for Grad School applications?
A:Once you know you’re applying the most important aspects are
1.Published papers/pre-prints : Pre-prints are fully written papers which are not yet
accepted for publishing. This is the easiest foot-in-the-door from the perspective of
admission committees. If you don’t have this yet, I would suggest getting at least a
pre-print worthy research idea, working on it and then applying.
2.Recommendation: Only ask people who will recommend you 110% positively, make
you look awesome. Try to get someone very successful in your research area/ﬁeld to
write a rec, this person should be preferably from outside Ashoka. The way to do this is
to get internships with people like this and then working super hard to impress them.
3.Grades: Sorry but yes, the higher your grades the better your chances in general.
However, everything above a 3.8 is the same. The big brackets I would say are a) 3.8+ b)
3.5+ c) 3.2+ d) apply later. In case of d) do something awesome to stand out, like publish
a paper at a top venue to stand out, work somewhere popular, get a recommendation
from someone who is super popular in the ﬁeld and only then apply. Or go to an okayish
place for a Master’s and then improve.
Q:Any advice for undergraduates about the higher studies in CS?
A:If you haven’t done any research, then don’t go to grad school. Only go to grad school if
you’ve worked on research problems, and know that you want to take advanced courses and
also do more research. Don’t go if you’re unsure/ because don’t have anything else lined up.
Ideally you should pay 0 for grad school, and arguably go only when you don’t have to pay.
Pratyush is a passionate cryptographer, pursuing his PhD from John Hopkins University. He was
also accepted to NYU’s Courant School of Mathematics. His internship experience includes research
roles at Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, Chennai Mathematical Institute, Dunya Labs, and
Celo-Berlin.5.3 Post-Ashoka Journey 23
Vineet Reddy (ASP’20)
Q:You were accepted to some very reputed departments like NYU Tandon and UChicago.
What path did you tread as an undergraduate that helped you secure these?
A:I think having a solid research/project experience in your undergrad really sets you apart from
other students. Keep in mind that Ashoka CS still does not have the same reputation as that of
other programs in India (think IIT’s IIIT’s and BITS). I think focusing on this can be really
useful when one is applying to graduate programs. Also, developing good rapport with your
professors helps as you’ll need their references when you start applying.
Q:According to you, what sets someone apart when applying to universities for a Masters
in CS?
A:From what our professors have told me - SoP and your LoRs seem to matter, by far, the most.
While your GPA is important, most of the time, it your SoP and LoRs that set you apart from
every other applicant. Stufﬁng them with solid references and good content should really help.
Q:What is the next ’big’ thing you aspire to achieve?
A:Ideally, work as a Software Developer in one of the Big 4 tech companies. Something long
term would be to retire as soon as possible! Trust me, slogging off at work sucks.
Q:Any pitfalls one should avoid while studying CS at Ashoka?
A:One of the biggest pitfalls I noticed coming from an engineering program was how the
education for most CS majors ends with the classroom. Most of the stuff I picked up was by
doing random side projects and messing around with some popular libraries. Don’t just do
what your courses tell you to, pick up random stuff and just work on it – you’ll probably learn
a lot more than what your courses teach.
Q:Any advice for undergraduates about the higher studies in CS?
A:Work hard in Discrete Math and Algorithms! They’re super important courses that I should
have paid a lot more attention to. Don’t worry too much about your grades, they’ll be ﬁne as
long as you put in a bit of effort. Don’t just be a one trick pony – learn more than Python.
Most of all, enjoy your time at Ashoka, it’s going to be great.
Vineet is a Machine Learning Enthusiast, and was accepted to Masters programs at the New York
University, University of Chicago, University of Massachusetts Amherst, and University of Maryland.
Due to the ongoing COVID-19 crisis, he has decided to defer his admit to the next year. He’s
currently working as a software development engineer at EACIIT - a Singapore based Big Data
Analytics leader.24 Chapter 5. Additional Resources and Advice
Aditya Singh (ASP’20)
Q:What is the most important advice you would give juniors who wish to get into top
Masters programs?
A:I think the most important thing is to actively engage with the material and faculty while taking
courses. Before making the decision to apply for further studies, it’s important to be clear
about what one would like to study further. Personally, being involved in various different
projects helped me in identifying the areas I really wanted to focus on and pursue further.
Q:According to you, which aspect of your application was most instrumental in you getting
accepted into top universities?
A:Applying for postgraduate studies is a pretty holistic process so pinpointing one single aspect
is difﬁcult. I think having industry exposure along with some research experience is helpful
as it shows versatility, which then also reﬂects in the recommendations. Doing decently well
on standardized tests is essential as they act as a virtual cutoff for some universities. The
statement of purpose is also as important as anything else and should be thoroughly reviewed.
Q:Any pitfalls one should avoid while studying CS at Ashoka?
A:I can’t say in general, but in my experience, I found that it’s easy to become a little disconnected
and solely grade obsessed at Ashoka, which is a detrimental mindset to have. Making the
effort to interact and grow with not only your professors, but also your peers, goes a long way
in helping you get the most out of the time you spend here.
Q:How would you compare research experience and industry internships when it comes
to applying to Masters programs in grad schools?
A:I think it really depends on the sort of programs and universities one is targeting. For more
theoretical and research-based programs I emphasized my research experience with professors
at Ashoka and outside, whereas for programs that are also directed towards the industry
(like data science, information systems, etc.) I put more emphasis on the internships. The
recommendation letters also varied correspondingly. Again, it’s helpful to identify the area
one would like to pursue, and plan the summer/winter commitments accordingly.
Q:As you will be studying Computational Data Science at CMU, what is the most impor-
tant skill people interested in Data Science must cultivate?
A:I think the most important skill to cultivate would be to keep your fundamentals in mathematics
strong, especially in subjects like linear algebra and real analysis. One might be able to
intuitively understand how CNNs look for features across visual data, but knowing how the
process of Stochastic Gradient Descent works is as important.
Aditya plans to attend Carnegie Mellon University for an MS in Computational Data Science. He was
also accepted to other reputed universities like University of Massachusetts-Amherst and University
of Maryland. He was formerly a Research Intern at ISRO and Indian Institute of Technology-
Gandhinagar5.4 Useful Contacts 25
5.4 Useful Contacts
•To contact any student (batch mate/senior/alumni) at Ashoka, it is convenient to use the Ashoka
Email. The general syntax of one’s email is <ﬁrstname>.<lastname>_<batch>@ashoka.edu.in
and you can use this format to look up/ contact anyone at Ashoka. Keep in mind that if one
has multiple active email addresses, you will need to use your discretion, as follows:
–If one has separate aspandugemails, contact them on their latest email (i.e aspin this
case). Similarly, contact alumni on their alumni email ID.
–Contact your TAs and TFs on their TA IDs, and not their personal emails, for course-
related queries - makes their lives easier
•If you do now know who to contact for anything remotely related to Computer Science, you
should probably contact the CS Representative ﬁrst. For Monsoon 2020, the CS Representative
is
–Sehajpreet Kaur ( sehajpreet.kaur_ug21@ashoka.edu.in )
•All Ashoka faculty can be contacted using the Ashoka Email. Ashoka Staff have simpler email
syntaxes - <ﬁrstname>.<lastname>@ashoka.edu.in
Wish you all the best, Department of Computer Science