




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University
































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:




































































Placements










Ashoka University is a pioneering liberal arts and sciences university in India at par with the best educational institutions in the world. Ashoka’s globally recognized faculty and rigorous pedagogy facilitate critical thinking, effective communication, complex problem-solving abilities, and leadership qualities among its graduates.
The University is a preferred destination for top recruiters across sectors such as BFSI, BPO, Consulting, Conglomerate, Education/EdTech, FMCG, Fintech, IT, Internet, KPO, Media and Advertising, Pharma, PR, Research/Analytics, Startup, and Development Sector. Placements at Ashoka are inclusive and cater to graduates who, when given the opportunity, can change the course of decisions, evaluate outcomes like no other peer of their age group, articulate their opinions effectively, and be confident and calculative risk takers.










Our graduates are recruited across diverse profiles some of which include; Business Development Associate, Management Consultant, Data Analyst, Editorial Associate, Data Science Management Trainee, Journalist, Growth Manager, and Product Manager, among others. The graduating batch of 2022 was placed exceptionally well across major sectors and industries.

Participating companiesHighest Salary offeredPlacement offers Highest Stipend offeredInternship Offers 

















The Career Development Office (CDO) aims to help students evaluate their goals, prepare for recruitment, explore new possibilities, and navigate the tangled web of job hunting. We offer one-on-one counselling sessions, workshops on resume building, interview skills, writing SoPs and cover letters, and more. We also open avenues for employers to interact with the Ashoka University students to foster relationships and facilitate recruitment.


























The Career Preparatory Program is designed to enhance the technical and professional skills of students. The Program prepares these students not only for the workplace but also for a lifelong career of espousing the right cause. We groom the leaders of tomorrow to be their most creative and inventive selves, and we bring them closer to inspiring opportunities in the job market.
The Program includes masterclasses, talks by industry experts, Founder sessions, alumni round table talks, business communication workshops, resume reviews, group discussions, and mock interviews, among other sessions.









Resume Building
LinkedIn for Networking
Industry Overview with Alumni
Role Overview with Alumni













Understanding & Decoding JDs
GD & Interview Prep
Business Communication
Industry-specific Resume Reviews













MS Office (Excel & PPT)
Data & Predictive Analytics
Finance, Stats, & Accounting
Guesstimates & Case Studies













Master Class with Senior
Leaders from Industry
Professional & Leadership-based Capacity Building























Undergraduate Programme
Ashoka Scholars Programme
Young India Fellowship
Masters in Liberal Studies
Masters programme in Economics
Masters in English






Ashoka University offers a multidisciplinary undergraduate programme, in the interest of exposing students to many different perspectives in and out of the classroom. Students might come to Ashoka already determined to specialise in one subject, but they are not expected to declare their Major until the middle of the second year.


Delivered in collaboration with















Ashoka University, in compliance with UGC guidelines, offers a 3-year Bachelor’s Degree programme.  It also offers a year-long Postgraduate Diploma in Advanced Studies and Research (DipASR). All undergraduates graduating with Bachelor’s Degrees at the end of their third year, or who have completed by that time at least academic 92 credits of their degree programme, are eligible for admission into the Postgraduate Diploma in Advanced Studies and Research programme, also known as the Ashoka Scholars Programme (ASP). Students who need to complete up to 8 credits of their undergraduate degree must do so within the first semester of the ASP. All students who fall into either of these categories must formally apply for admission to the ASP towards the end of the Spring semester of their third year. The exact date will be circulated by the OAA.













YIF is Ashoka University’s fully residential one-year multidisciplinary liberal studies in postgraduate diploma programme. First of its kind in India, the Fellowship brings together the brightest students from diverse academic and social backgrounds, who are then guided by distinguished scholars and leaders of our times. They are taught to develop critical thinking and writing skills, understand leadership and group dynamics and get exposure to a wide range of subjects. This transformational experience turns them into problem-solvers and collaborators who are an asset to organisations and society.


Delivered in collaboration with















Ashoka University’s MA programme in Liberal Studies is a 32-credit, a one-year programme offered to students who have graduated with a diploma in Liberal Studies from the Young India Fellowship, and have been accepted by an Ashoka University faculty mentor to work on a specific research project as a graduate assistant. This programme’s interdisciplinary module contains coursework from a variety of disciplines, including Humanities, Social Sciences, Behavioural Sciences, and Natural Sciences. The University aims to train students to think critically about their disciplines of interest while deriving insights from other disciplines. The MA programme in Liberal Studies also helps students to prepare their graduate applications.

















Ashoka University’s Masters programme in Economics has been developed to provide students with the opportunity to be trained in modern Economics by highly qualified economists. Applications opened for the first batch of Masters in Economics students in February this year.

















Ashoka University’s MA programme in English mentors students to think across boundaries of genre, culture and time. The programme’s curriculum introduces students to a wide array of texts, theories and disciplinary formations from around the world. The programme lets students pursue courses in other departments at the University for integrated education.





























































































































































































































































































































































































































































“Ashoka University is fostering a league of professionals that will write the future of the modern workplace. The curriculum at Ashoka encourages learning within and outside the classroom in unconventional ways, which sets Ashoka’s graduates class apart in their ability to communicate, think critically, solve complex problems, and be leaders in their respective domains. Graduates of Ashoka at WNS display a sophisticated
recognition of how data drives our world, and are analytical thinkers who make for great team players.

Group CEO, WNS services





“When one considers the pace at which technology is changing, university graduates will need to be equipped for future jobs that have not yet been invented. ‘One size fits all’ education has created graduates that are not directly employable. With well rounded, broad education, graduates from Ashoka University are equipped for the uncertain business environment that needs multi-dimensional thinkers.
While the job specifics can be taught, the graduates from Ashoka University have shown the ability to clearly communicate ideas, analyze data, work in teams & solve problems. They are socially sensitive individuals who are working successfully across seemingly disparate businesses.
At Ashoka University, we have come across brilliant students who pushed us to make tough choices. We are particularly impressed with the quality of questions from those who had worked on wider projects beyond the curriculum. The candidates who joined DB Private Bank last year are doing very well both in their individual roles as well as active members of a team.”

CEO, Deutsche Bank





“I am delighted with the Fellows we have absorbed into Genpact over the last few years. They are different as they have a broader perspective and are able to connect the dots; they are much better at communication – structuring and articulating their thoughts and ideas. YIF graduates are also more curious and hungry to learn – a key differentiator in a world that is changing much faster than ever before. I look forward to Genpact continuing to be an active recruiter from the YIF programme going forward.”

President and CEO, Genpact 






“At Dr Reddy’s, we were looking out for young leaders who not only had the zeal to learn  but also brought unique & creative perspectives to the table. This required an exposure  to diversity in education as well as thought process which the Fellowship provides. Every  YIF recruit now on-board with us has moved from adapting to value-adding at a swift  pace & are already creating a niche for themselves in the organisation. We value the spirit  and grit that they bring to the workplace.”

VP Human Resources, Dr Reddy’s Labs





“The Ashokan we hired has truly been one of the best hires we’ve ever made and part of the credit should go to Ashoka University. He was keen to learn and also contribute and make an impact on the Organisation’s goals. Over the last year or so, I’m delighted to say that he has excelled at almost every new task and challenge, and has fit into our culture seamlessly.”


Founder & Group Executive Chairman, MakeMyTrip





“Students from Ashoka are bright, self-starters, and confident. They worked on all aspects of our projects – from training field staff for data collection to learning firsthand data management skills, and even participated in government meetings. Their enthusiasm to learn and eagerness to make a difference distinguishes them from their peers, and we have been glad to have had the opportunity to work with this group and continuing our relationship.”


Executive Director, J-PAL South Asia at IFMR








































































The Ashoka Internship Cell, an extension of the Career Development Office provides exceptional opportunities for young Ashokans to hone their skills for the dynamic career ahead.
This past year, Ashokans interned with prestigious organisations such as Spencer Stuart, DE Shaw & Co., HUL, ITC, Ab Inbev, Axis Bank, IndusInsights, Adobe, JSW Group, SAP Labs, Amuse Labs, MSL Group, The Print, and Doctors Without Borders. Some of the roles offered to the students were Financial Research Intern, Business Analyst Intern, Risk Analytics Intern, Software Engineering Intern, Quality Assurance Intern, Donor Relations and Communications Intern, Operations & Strategy Intern, Content Writing Intern, Digital Health Intern, Research and Content Management Intern. The highest stipend offered this year was 1.5 lakhs per month at Hindustan Unilever Limited.
The Internship season of 2022 concluded with 350+ offers, with the participation of 140+ organisations.















































Assistant Vice President,  Career Development Office, Ashoka University
 B.Com. (Hons) SRCC. P.G, Marketing Management



















Senior Director, Career Development Office, Ashoka University
 MBA (PGDM), NMIMS Mumbai



















Assistant Director, Career Development Office, Ashoka University
 MBA, University of Bradford,  BA, Lady Shri Ram College for Women



















Senior Director, Career Development Office, Ashoka University
 Master's in Industrial Psychology, Pune University 



















Associate Director, Career Development Office, Ashoka University
  MBA, Institute of Productivity and Management



















Senior Manager, Career Development Office, Ashoka University
 PGDM, Alliance Business School, Bangalore



















Deputy Manager, Career Development Office, Ashoka University
 Post Graduate Diploma in International Business, Ram Lal Anand College  B.Com.(Prog) Jesus And Mary College



















Assistant Manager, Career Development Office, Ashoka University
 MA English, Ashoka University  BA (Hons) English, Gargi College, Delhi University



















Assistant Manager, Career Development Office, Ashoka University
 MA, Jawaharlal Nehru University  BA, Miranda House, University of Delhi



















Assistant Manager, Career Development Office, Ashoka University
 UG Mathematics Major, Ashoka University  ASP Economics SME , Ashoka University



















Assistant Manager, Career Development Office, Ashoka University
 Young India Fellowship’ 22, Ashoka University



















Assistant Manager, Career Development Office, Ashoka University
 Young India Fellowship’ 21, Ashoka University



















Assistant Manager, Career Development Office, Ashoka University
 Ashoka Scholars Programme, Ashoka University























Address

No.2, Green Avenue Street, Pocket D-3, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi-110070




Working Hours:

Monday to Friday 10 AM to 6 PM



Email:





Phone:







Campus

Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O.Rai, Sonepat Haryana-131029 (India)






 
















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University





















































