




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University



































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:












































 
















Ashoka University offers a multidisciplinary undergraduate programme, in the interest of exposing students to many different perspectives in and out of the classroom. Students are not expected to declare their Major until the middle of the second year. This is to ensure that they get plenty of time to try out various possibilities, to pursue extra-curricular and co-curricular interests, to discover new passions, and perhaps to change the trajectory of their lives.
Students enrolled at Ashoka University can choose their Major from a total of 12 pure or 9 interdisciplinary options. Students can also pick Minors from among 21 disciplines and concentration from among 19 disciplines on offer. Over the duration of their undergraduate programme, it is mandatory for students to undertake 9 Foundation Courses and 2 Co-curricular Courses.

To graduate with a Bachelor’s degree from Ashoka University, students must pass courses that are broadly divided into three categories – Foundation Courses, Major Courses (including Interdisciplinary Majors) and Co-Curricular Courses. Each course carries credit points, and in order to earn their degree at the end of three years, students pursuing a pure major need to have accumulated a minimum of 100 credits, students pursuing an interdisciplinary major a minimum of 116 credits.
The course divisions and credits pure majors need to acquire within three years are as follows:


9 Foundation Courses (36 credits)


12 Major Courses (48 credits) * , ** 


2 Co-Curricular Courses (4 credits)


Other (Elective, Minor, Concentration) (12 credits)


*Students working towards an approved Interdisciplinary Major must take a minimum of 16 (64 credits) courses – i.e. four courses more than what is required for a pure Major.
**Some departments have implemented additional requirements such as a higher number of required Major Courses. Students should consult the website of the respective programme or inquire with the respective department to ensure that they are aware of the requirements specific to their Major. 
Students can also take additional courses during the three years. A number of Minors are also offered at Ashoka. To qualify for a Minor, students must take 6 courses (24 credits) in a programme outside their field of Major specialisation. 
For details regarding the more specific requirements students must meet (e.g. the kinds of courses students must take to qualify for a Minor), please consult the website of the respective academic programmes.















Critical Thinking Seminars include: Introduction to Critical Thinking (ICT), the principal offering of the Undergraduate Writing Programme (UWP). All students complete ICT in their first year (either in the Monsoon or the Spring semester). The UWP also offers ELT Tutorials, an immersion critical thinking course for non-native English speakers, which are capped at 5 students each. Other departments offer elective sequels to ICT, to further develop students’ writing and research skills.



















Ashoka University requires each student to take 9 Foundation Courses. Each of these courses is mandatory. These courses are not formal gateways into the Major programmes, but distinctive courses that introduce students to the foundations of thought and various styles of thinking, and also to inter- and transdisciplinary approaches.  Other than Introduction to Critical Thinking which must be completed in the first year, students have the flexibility to choose the order in which they take the Foundation Courses but are advised to complete the Foundation Courses series early in the three year undergraduate programme.



















A Major is the subject in which a student will earn a Bachelor’s degree – either a B.A. or a B.Sc. Although students can take courses toward their specialisation starting from the second semester, they are only required to formally declare their Major at the end of the third semester. A minimum of 12 courses are required to complete a Major in a subject; 16 courses are required to complete an Interdisciplinary Major.



















While these are not double-degree programmes, they combine related fields and explore new approaches to the study of particular fields to give students a single, interdisciplinary Bachelors’ degree.



















Students are encouraged to consider declaring a Minor in addition to their Major. To qualify for a Minor, students must take 6 courses (24 credits) in a programme outside their field of Major specialisation. For details regarding the more specific requirements students must meet (e.g. the kinds of courses students must take to qualify for a Minor), please consult the website of the respective academic programmes. In addition to the subjects listed here, we also offer Minors in all our eleven major subjects.



















The Concentration will consist of four 4-credit courses (or courses totaling 16 credits) in that subject, at least two of which (or courses totaling 8 credits) must be 200-level or above.  The Concentration can be completed either by the end of the 3-year degree or during the +1 year. A Concentration can be completed in pure Major and Minor programmes.



















Every semester, Ashoka University offers several 2-credit Co-curricular Courses in Performing Arts, Visual Arts, and Languages. Classes for these courses normally meet in the evenings once a week for two hours. Co-curricular Courses are a mixture of practical training in an art form (e.g. dance, theatre, music, painting, ceramics) or a language (e.g. French, Latin, Urdu) and critical analysis of the aesthetic, social, political, economic, and historical dimensions of the same. Students have to take 2 Co-curricular Courses as part of their graduation requirements; in any semester, a student can take a maximum of 1 Co-curricular Course.

































Ashoka University aims to help students become well-rounded individuals who can think critically about issues from multiple perspectives, communicate effectively and become leaders with a commitment to public service. An Ashoka education carries a strong emphasis on foundational knowledge, thorough academic research based on rigorous pedagogy, and hands-on experience with real-world challenges.



























Professor and Head, Department of Mathematics, Ashoka University
Ph.D. Indian Statistical Institute



















Professor of Physics  Ashoka University
Ph.D. Carnegie Mellon University



















Head of the Department, Biology, Professor of Biology,  Ashoka University
Ph.D. Jawaharlal Nehru University



















Assistant Professor of History, Ashoka University
Ph.D. University of Delhi






























The class structure based on interactive and joint learning has been an amazing experience. It taught me to take inspiration and learn from my peers instead of mindlessly competing with them. More than any resource or infrastructure, my time at Ashoka was marked by the brilliant people who encouraged me, both professors and students alike.

Management Trainee at Star TV
Undergraduate 2019

























Ashoka University is a preferred destination for several leading recruiters across corporate, consulting, BFSI, IT, and social sector firms including Microsoft, McKinsey & Co., AT Kearney, BCG, American Express and Google. Prestigious organisations in the country such as Cipla, MakeMyTrip, Genpact, Airtel Payments Bank, Teach for India, Harappa, and Tata Trusts also count Ashokans among their ranks.


















Ashoka University Alumni together form a community of diverse leaders and changemakers from all walks of life, driven to generate transformational impact on society. Fellows continue to make an impact across diverse spheres, whether as entrepreneurs, in the corporate world, development sector, research, journalists, policy, sports, academia or as professional artists.





















Ashoka University’s graduate academic programmes provides students with exhaustive knowledge of their subject areas and prepares them to tackle future real-world problems and challenges.











The Entrepreneur in Residence program is a five-month long intensive incubation program designed to help entrepreneurs from the Ashoka Community. The Entrepreneurs in Residence get an opportunity to stay on campus while working on their…









































































































































































































































































































































The Office of Global Education and Strategic Partnerships (GESP) spearheads all international partnerships for the university working with prospective partners to negotiate, develop, build and manage partnerships. The Office provides Ashoka students with a range of resources and services.











Ashoka University's strong emphasis on foundational knowledge, hands-on experience with real-world challenges, and academic research, drives the programmes and offerings during summer; a good three month period between the Spring and Monsoon semesters.




















28 Dec, 2022
Professor Bandyopadhyay would assume this important role in December 2022







30 Sep, 2022
Come join us on Thursday, November 3, 2022 as the GESP brings back the Study Abroad Fair in person and…







20 Jun, 2022
The idea of sexual “shame” is relatively new in the Indian subcontinent, and we in fact have far longer and…





















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































