




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































This course will cover various applications of game theory. Students taking this course would already have studied the basics of game theory like dominant strategy, Nash equilibrium, subgame perfection etc. in their second year Microeconomics 2 course. This course will start with an accelerated revision of these concepts. It will then move to different applications of the theory like oligopoly, contests, voting behaviour, bargaining, strategic moves and brinkmanship. We will also cover two areas of game theory that deal with different forms of long run interaction between agents. These are repeated games and evolutionary games. Finally, time permitting, we will consider certain applications of incomplete information games like price discrimination and contracts. Applications will be drawn not just from economics but also other subjects like political science and biology.






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































