




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































In what ways does power translate and transform through art practice? Why and how are democratic states so invested in promoting, but also censoring the arts? How do categories in art appear? What role do states, markets and artists play in producing these categories? What is the role of the market in making art and artists matter? How does an audience develop a relationship with specific artists, and acquire a taste for the arts? With a central question « what can art practice tell us about social and political institutions and relationships? » this course explores the deeply fraught yet critical alliance between political practice and the art world. To address this issue, the course begins with answering why, in the first place, should social scientists be concerned about the arts? The course will not only entail a study of important theoretical texts, alongside focusing on empirical research and literature emerging in field, but we will also critically engage with the arts and reflect on methodological strategies that are applied to study the relationship between art and politics.


A selection of writers and themes we ll be studying include: The likes of John Dewey, Bruno Latour, Walter Benjamin, Adorno, Marcuse, Partha Mitter, Arjun Appadurai among others


For themes like Art and the public, The Critical Method, What is, and what’s in the contemporary?, Modern State and the compulsions of regulation, Modern State and its Art Markets, Mass Media and Artists Online: Self-Making, Other-Making and Art-Making among other issues.






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































