




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:

























LEAD is Ashoka University’s Internship Program focusing on career development through prestigious internships and other engagement opportunities. LEAD envisions a collaborative model of development, highlighting the need for liberal Arts and sciences education in various industries and in turn, ensuring that students get exposure beyond the classroom. The program aims to closely work together with organisations through various Internship/Project models outlined to help students enhance their diverse skill sets.
LEAD includes the following modes of engagement:
Summer Internships
Summer Internships are the most popular category of internships among students as well as organisations. These internships allow students to develop their skills during their summer break, approximately for a duration of 8-12 weeks. These internships can either be remote or on-site at the organisation. Many a time, Summer Internships get converted to a Pre-Placement Offer upon completion of the internship which students can take up once they have graduated from Ashoka.
Virtual Internships
Virtual Internships are designed to ensure industry experience for students all around the academic year. Virtual Internships require the students to dedicate a stipulated number of hours per week (10-20 hours) in tandem with their academic schedule.
Credit-Based Internships
The Credit-Based Internship allows undergraduate and master’s students to earn academic credits while engaging in an Internship for a six-month period. Students gain practical hands-on experience at their internship while also taking part in reflective learning to make sense of their experience and how it impacts their future career goals. Students develop learning objectives, complete a post-internship reflective assignment, and design an internship learning portfolio demonstrating their internship outcomes under the supervision of a faculty member.
YIF Experiential Learning Programme
The Experiential Learning Module (ELM) is a core component of the Young India Fellowship (YIF) curriculum where Fellows work on real-life projects from diverse sectors in collaboration with partner organizations, institutions, and individuals. The ELM project amounts to 4 credits within the YIF Programme. The ELM commences in October and ends in May. Fridays and Saturdays in each academic session are designated ELM days, and a week each in October and February is designated as the ELM week which is utilized for fieldwork.
Graduate Internships
Graduate Internships are envisioned as a professional commitment that allows students to join as full-time interns for a period of 6-12 months after completing their Undergraduate and Postgraduate programs. It provides students with an opportunity to explore a specific industry of their choice and develop relevant skills. The internship serves as a foundation, or training period, leading to professional employment.
Live Projects
Live projects are a special category of engagement that involve research projects for a short span of time. These projects are usually undertaken by students in collaboration with an organisation or an independent researcher. Students dedicate stipulated hours per week (usually 10-20 hours) and submit their deliverables by the end of the project. These projects are offered throughout the year and their duration is decided as per the feasibility of the researcher, faculty, project manager, and student.
Winter Internships
Winter Internships provide students with an unparalleled opportunity to expand their horizons as they engage themselves in small projects (full-time) during the months of December and January. Students are encouraged to explore diverse opportunities and refresh their practical knowledge. Since the period of engagement is comparatively shorter, we encourage organizations to make an early offer for winter internships and start an engagement with Ashoka University. This helps organizations understand the talent pool at Ashoka.
Shadow Programme
In this program, students shadow a CXO/managerial level executive for a fixed duration to understand how they go about doing their daily tasks and deal with day-to-day conflicts. This will help students gain hands-on experience, learn about an organization, and build relationships. During the course of the program, students can attend workplace meetings, serve alongside the employer in volunteer work, discuss industry trends, and engage with the organisation’s mission.
To connect, please write to .




















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University






















































