




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University



































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:














  















The Office of Global Education and Strategic Partnerships (GESP) spearheads all international partnerships for the university working with prospective partners to negotiate, develop, build and manage partnerships. The Office provides Ashoka students with a range of resources and services as they explore international study aboard, whether it is for the summer or a semester. GESP oversees courses and short term study options for international students from partner’s schools and beyond. It also runs the summer semester at Ashoka; offering a number of courses for credit for Ashoka and other students.
The GESP office provides a variety of opportunities for students, like research and enrichment programmes that could include from entrepreneurship opportunities to deep dive in a specific subject through the wide variety of partnerships that the university has with international schools. GESP works with students, faculty, and staff to ensure that a variety of good quality programmes and curricula are offered at the university so that students have a positive study and life experience while earning their degrees at Ashoka University.





















                                    The Office of Summer Programmes offers an intensive six-week study programme, during the…                                    














                                    Ashoka University welcomes undergraduate students of international institutions from across the globe…                                    














                                    Ashoka students can spend a maximum of one semester abroad at an…                                    





























 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































