




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University


























































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 































































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 



































































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:








































The Young India Fellowship attracts the finest academicians, practitioners and experts in the field to the classroom, and gives them the autonomy to innovate, create and craft curricula. This is a rare freedom within academia and ensures an unparalleled teaching and learning experience, not just for YIF, but across all programmes at Ashoka University.



 
Ashoka has institutionalised the Socratic way of teaching: focusing on teaching students how to think rather than just what to think. Each course offering is from a distinct academic or professional domain, while several are interdisciplinary in nature. Course offerings include public policy, art appreciation, statistics, data, psychology, philosophy, gender studies, group dynamics, design thinking, communication, international relations and more. Broad course domains are as follows:

 
Fellows study a total of 20 courses during the year-long programme. Most of these courses are taken by all 100 Fellows, while a few courses are taught in groups of about 25 Fellows, as choice-based Special Seminars.
The diversity in courses is also reflected in the varied styles of teaching and assessment, which includes discussions, seminars, field visits, presentations and group work. While catering to multiple learning styles, this allows Fellows to learn from a range of perspectives, and prepare themselves to be critical thinkers who can connect the dots.













Renowned faculty from Ashoka University and partner institutions (such as the University of Pennsylvania), and practitioners from leading institutions globally teach at the YIF. The following is a non-exhaustive list of current and recent faculty at the YIF.





























Former Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India
 




















Chancellor, Professor of History, Ashoka University
  D.Phil. Oxford University




















Principal Academic Advisor & Professor of English, Ashoka University
  MA University of Cambridge, Fellow of the English Association (FEA), UK




















Head of the Department, Physics, Sunanda and Santimay Basu Professor of Astrophysics, Ashoka University
  Ph.D. Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru




















Professor of English,  Director, Centre for Studies in Gender & Sexuality,  Director of the PhD Programme in English
  Ph.D. Tufts University




















Head of the Department, English and Professor of English, Ashoka University
  Ph.D. University of Sussex




















Head of Department, Professor of Creative Writing, Ashoka University
  DPhil in English, Oxford University




















Head of the Department, Assistant Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University
  Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania




















Visiting Professor, Trivedi School of Biosciences, Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship,  Ashoka University
  Wellcome Trust International Senior Research Fellow. PhD Biochemistry, Washington State University, USA




















Visiting Professor of Psychology,  Ashoka University
  Ph.D. Trinity College, Cambridge




















Assistant Professor of Computer Science,  Ashoka University
  Ph.D. Yale University




















Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Ph.D. Yale University




















Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Ph.D. California Institute of Technology




















Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania




















Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Ph.D. Carlson School of Management




















 Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  MA University of Delhi 




















Chairperson, Board of Trustees, Ashoka UniversityFounder and MD, Harappa Education Founder and MD, 9.9 GroupFounding Dean, ISB  Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania 




















Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Ph.D. Indian Institute of Management Bangalore




















Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Ph.D. California Institute of Technology




















Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Publisher and Founder, Zubaan Books Reader at College of Vocational Studies, University of Delhi




















Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Ph.D. Harvard University




















Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Ph.D. Oxford University




















Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship 
  Ph.D. Patna University 




















Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Ph.D. Jawaharlal Nehru University




















Founder and Vice-Chairman, Info Edge (Naukri.com)  Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  BA, St. Stephen’s CollegeMBA, Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad 




















Associate Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University
  Ph.D. University College, London




















Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University
  Ph.D. Delhi University




















Professor of Philosophy, Ashoka University
  Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin




















Assistant Professor of Political Science, Co-Director of the Trivedi Centre for Political Data, Ashoka University
  Ph.D. Sciences Po




















Visiting Professor of International Relations,  Ashoka University  Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Ph.D. King’s College London




















Visiting Faculty, Young India Fellowship
  Doctoral Researcher, University of Arizona






















Please note that several courses change year on year, and the following non-exhaustive list of courses from is appended below for the reader to get a sense of the kinds of courses that are offered at the YIF:
 





Course


Ashoka University Faculty






JM Financial Lectures on Reason and the Makers of Modern India


Rudrangshu Mukherjee
Chancellor and Professor of History; DPhil, University of Oxford 




John Keats, Poetry and Intensity


Malabika Sarkar
Vice Chancellor and Professor of English; MA, University of Cambridge; Fellow of the English Association, UK




The Universe and Us


Dipankar Bhattacharya
Head of the Department, Physics and Sunanda and Santimay Basu Professor of Astrophysics; PhD, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru




Shakespeare and the World


Jonathan Gil Harris
Professor and Head of the Department, English; PhD, University of Sussex
Madhavi Menon
Professor of English; PhD, Tufts University




Khayal, North Indian Classical Music, and the Modern Song: A Story of the Trajectory of Modernity 


Amit Chaudhuri
Professor of Creative Writing; DPhil, University of Oxford




Language, Politics and Society in India


Kathryn Hardy
Assistant Professor and Head of the Department, Sociology and Anthropology; PhD, University of Pennsylvania




Understanding Pandemics


Shahid Jameel 
Visiting Professor, Trivedi School of Biosciences; PhD, Washington State University




Science of Emotion and Empathy: A Toolkit of Concepts and Techniques 

Bhismadev Chakrabarti
Visiting Professor of Psychology; PhD, Trinity College, University of Cambridge



Who Governs India?


Gilles Verniers
Assistant Professor of Political Science; PhD, Sciences Po




Morality and the Good Life


Clancy Martin
Professor of Philosophy; PhD, University of Texas at Austin




Crowds of Occupation, Crowds of Protest 


Deepak Mehta 
Professor of Sociology; PhD, Delhi University




Anthropology Today


Mekhala Krishnamurthy
Associate Professor of Sociology and Anthropology; PhD, University College, London




The New Geography of the Information Age


Debayan Gupta
Assistant Professor of Computer Science; PhD, Yale University




 





Course


Visiting Faculty at the YIF






Climate Change and the Future of Health, Food and Agriculture


K VijayRaghavan
Former Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India




India and the World: A Strategic History Since 1945


Rudra Chaudhuri
Senior Lecturer, Department of War Studies, King’s College London




Heart of Leadership and Group Dynamics


Kenwyn Smith
Professor, University of Pennsylvania




Behavioral Science in Development



Neela Saldanha
PhD, The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania





Leadership Lessons from the Road Less Travelled


Sanjeev Bikhchandani, Padma Shri
Founder, Infoedge (Naukri.com); Founder and Trustee, Ashoka University; MBA, IIM Ahmedabad




Issues in Social Democracy and Social Justice in India


Narendra Jadhav
Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha)




Design Thinking and Innovation


Ranjan Banerjee
Dean and Professor, BITS School of Management




Deconstructing Select Indian Foreign Policy Challenges and Responses: A Practitioner’s Perspective


Arun Kumar Singh
Former Ambassador of India to the United States




Building Careers, Habits and Institutions


Pramath Raj Sinha
Founding Dean, ISB Hyderabad; Founder and Chairman, Harappa Education; Chairperson, Board of Trustees, Ashoka University




Indian Financial Regulation and Policy


KP Krishnan
Former Secretary, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Government of India




Kabir: The Poet of Vernacular Modernity


Purushottam Agrawal
Renowned Kabir and Bhakti scholar




Problem Solving and Statistical Thinking in Modern Life


Santosh Venkatesh
Professor, University of Pennsylvania 




Art Appreciation


Anunaya Chaubey
Artist and Provost, Anant National University




Women, Society and Changing India


Urvashi Butalia, Padma Shri
Author, Publisher and Founder, Zubaan Books




Foundations of Leadership


Dwight Jaggard
Professor Emeritus, University of Pennsylvania




Economics and Public Policy: An Introduction to Applied Microeconomics


AK Shiva Kumar
Development Economist and Visiting Professor, Harvard University and ISB Hyderabad



Philosophy and Cognitive Science

Ritwik Agrawal
Doctoral Researcher, University of Missouri



India’s Economy: Past, Present and Near Future
Omkar Goswami
DPhil, University of Oxford


Trade, Trust and Peace in South Asia
Sanjay Kathuria
DPhil, University of Oxford



 


































Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University
























































