




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:



































The idea behind the first Lab course (Introduction to Physics through Experiments) was to help the students, using simple and interesting experiments, to acquire the skills, protocols, and attitude required to perform and design experiments and to analyse observations successfully, so that students understand what experimental physics is all about. This Lab-2 course will be a little bit more advanced compared to Lab-1. The experiments (list is given below) are chosen in such a way that they would help the students to understand the theoretical concepts taught in the classroom lectures. Lab-2 will have the following experiments broadly based on the principles of classical mechanics and electromagnetism.


1. Kater's Pendulum (to determine the acceleration due to gravity)


2. Air Track (to study conservation of momentum and energy)


3. Free Fall


4. Electromagnetic Damping


5. Equipotential Curves


6. Electronics Circuits (LCR Bridge)


The following experiments will be added should there be any unforeseen problems in any of the above mentioned experimental set up.


1. Ballistic Galvanometer


2. Speed of Light






















































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































