




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University



































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 















































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:






































Ashoka’s summer study abroad programme offers students a unique opportunity to extend their semester learning experience by taking courses taught at partner and other international institutions and gain on hand international exposure. Every summer, international summer schools offer undergraduate courses in different subjects and fields. These courses enrich the undergraduate learning experience and can be transferred to the total credits.
Favourite destinations of Ashoka students include University of California Berkeley, Stanford University, King’s College London, London School of Economics, HEC Paris, University of Cambridge, NTU Singapore, University of Zurich, Utrecht Summer Session, to name a few.













Students can apply for research and internship opportunities abroad to get practical experience in their fields of interest. Through these hands-on projects, students get an opportunity to implement their learnings in a work setting. Enrichment programmes offered at partner institutions offer these unique opportunities with special discounts for Ashoka students.
Ashoka students are selected through a competitive process for these opportunities. These opportunities are available in Lehigh University, NTU Singapore, Koç University etc.
“I consider myself extremely lucky to have chosen the Jamrooms project at the Mountaintop programme at Lehigh University. There was a strong cohesiveness in our team. We worked together like well-oiled gears of the same machine. Although we met almost all our deadlines, I don’t ever remember the ambience at work being stressful or dull” – Simran Bhuria
For more information, please contact the Office of International Programmes at .






















 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































