




Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University































































































 










































































































































































 









































































































































 








































































































































































































































































































 
























Search for:



 












































































































































































































































































































 

Other links:






Other links:










































The Department of Sociology and Anthropology builds on the unique relationship between Sociology and Social anthropology as it has developed and flourished over time. We emphasise the critical empiricism, theoretical engagement and comparative approach central to our best disciplinary traditions. Our department encourages interdisciplinary explorations with allied fields of social thought and inquiry, including history, economics, political science, geography, psychology, philosophy, linguistics, environmental studies, computer science, planning and design, natural sciences, arts and aesthetics, law and media. Some of the areas and themes the faculty work on are contested borderlands, agricultural markets and exchange, mental health clinics, regional cinema audiences, political economy of water, food, hazards and disasters, rivers and islands, infrastructure and informality, anthropology of literature, philosophical anthropology, cities and environment, and the state, bureaucracy, law and violence.Our department acknowledges the similarities between the disciplines of Sociology and Anthropology. Going beyond stereotypes of the sociologist conducting surveys in a city and the anthropologist doing fieldwork in a remote village, we recognize that both Sociology and Anthropology study relations between the personal and thepolitical, the micro and the macro, and the individual and the institutional. Sociology and Anthropology teach us to challenge and refine our taken-for-granted cultural assumptions by attempting to understand those of others.We offer both undergraduate and graduate programmes of study. Our undergraduate programme consists of a major, minor and concentration in Sociology and Anthropology. Our graduate programme consists of a five-year Ph.D. programme with two years of coursework included.

















The Sociology and Anthropology Programme at Ashoka will train future scholars and professionals to be engaged observers, attentive…













Ashoka University offers a year-long Postgraduate Diploma in Advanced Studies and Research (DipASR) to students who have completed…













The Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Ashoka University invites applications for its PhD programme for the academic…
























































                                                        Assistant Professor of Sociology and Anthropology and Environmental Studies, Ashoka University                                                    

                                                        Ph.D. Syracuse University                                                    




















                                                        Dean, Faculty and Professor of Environmental Studies and Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University                                                    

                                                        Ph.D. Cornell University                                                    




















                                                        Associate Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University                                                    

                                                        Ph.D. Emory University                                                    




















                                                        Head of the Department, Assistant Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University                                                    

                                                        Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania                                                    




















                                                        Associate Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University                                                    

                                                        Ph.D. Cornell University                                                    




















                                                        Associate Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University                                                    

                                                        Ph.D. University College, London                                                    




















                                                        Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University                                                    

                                                        Ph.D. Delhi University                                                    




















                                                        Associate Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University                                                    

                                                        Ph.D. Johns Hopkins University                                                    




















                                                        Assistant Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University                                                    

                                                        Ph.D. Columbia University                                                    
































                                                        Visiting Faculty of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University                                                    

                                                        Ph.D., University of Delhi.                                                    




















                                                        Visiting Faculty of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University                                                    






















                                                        Visiting Faculty of Sociology and Anthropology, Ashoka University                                                    


























For any queries regarding Sociology & Anthropology programmes, please contact: -




Head of Department






Seminar Coordinator






Undergraduate Coordinator






Undergraduate Coordinator






Ph.D. Coordinator






Department Manager






Student Representative



































 






























Programme Interested InUndergraduate ProgrammeYoung India FellowshipYSPPhDMA - EconomicsMA EnglishMSC Biology



Year of Admission2022-232023-242024-252025-26




Subscribe to our communications



[current_url]


















Plot No. 2, Rajiv Gandhi Education City, National Capital Region P.O. Rai, Sonepat
                                Haryana-131029 (India)




Ashoka University Plot no.222, Second floor, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi-110020































Email Address*








 




















 










 



















 




Copyright © Ashoka University: Leading Liberal Arts and Sciences University




















































